text_id: Text #: 72

source: Source:  Fourth Annual Message. December 6, 1854.

full_text: "Fellow-citizens of the Senate December 6, 1864\nand House of Representatives:\n\nAgain the blessings of health and abundant harvests claim our profoundest gratitude to Almighty God.\n\nThe condition of our foreign affairs is reasonably satisfactory. \n\nMexico continues to be a theatre of civil war. While our political relations with that country have undergone no change, we have, at the same time, strictly maintained neutrality between the belligerents. \n\nAt the request of the states of Costa Rica and Nicaragua, a competent engineer has been authorized to make a survey of the river San Juan and the port of San Juan. It is a source of much satisfaction that the difficulties which for a moment excited some political apprehensions, and caused a closing of the inter-oceanic transit route, have been amicably adjusted, and that there is a good prospect that the route will soon be reopened with an increase of capacity and adaptation. We could not exaggerate either the commercial or the political importance of that great improvement.\n\nIt would be doing injustice to an important South American state not to acknowledge the directness, frankness, and cordiality with which the United States of Colombia have entered into intimate relations with this government. A claims convention has been constituted to complete the unfinished work of the one which closed its session in 1861. .\n\nThe new liberal constitution of Venezuela having gone into effect with the universal acquiescence of the people, the government under it has been recognized, and diplomatic intercourse with it has opened in a cordial and friendly spirit. The long-deferred Aves Island claim has been satisfactorily paid and discharged. \n\nMutual payments have been made of the claims awarded by the late joint commission for the settlement of claims between the United States and Peru. An earnest and cordial friendship continues to exist between the two countries, and such efforts as were\n\nin my power have been used to remove misunderstanding and avert a threatened war between Peru and Spain. \n\nOur relations are of the most friendly nature with Chile, the Argentine Republic, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Paraguay, San Salvador, and Hayti.\n\nDuring the past year no differences of any kind have arisen with any of those republics, and, on the other hand, their sympathies with the United States are constantly expressed with cordiality and earnestness.\n\nThe claim arising from the seizure of the cargo of the brig Macedonian in 1821 has been paid in full by the government of Chile. \n\nCivil war continues in the Spanish part of San Domingo, apparently without prospect of an early close.\n\nOfficial correspondence has been freely opened with Liberia, and it gives us a pleasing view of social and political progress in that Republic. It may be expected to derive new vigor from American influence, improved by the rapid disappearance of slavery in the United States.\n\nI solicit your authority to furnish to the republic a gunboat at moderate cost, to be reimbursed to the United States by instalments. Such a vessel is needed for the safety of that state against the native African races; and in Liberian hands it would be more effective in arresting the African slave trade than a squadron in our own hands. The possession of the least organized naval force would stimulate a generous ambition in the republic, and the confidence which we should manifest by furnishing it would win forbearance and favor towards the colony from all civilized nations.\n\nThe proposed overland telegraph between America and Europe, by the way of Behring's Straits and Asiatic Russia, which was sanctioned by Congress at the last session, has been undertaken, under very favorable circumstances, by an association of American citizens, with the cordial good-will and support as well of this government as of those of Great Britain and Russia. Assurances have been received from most of the South American States of their high appreciation of the enterprise, and their readiness to co-operate in constructing lines tributary to that world-encircling communication. I learn, with much satisfaction, that the noble design of a telegraphic communication between the eastern coast of America and Great Britain has been renewed with full expectation of its early accomplishment.\n\nThus it is hoped that with the return of domestic peace the country will be able to resume with energy and advantage its former high career of commerce and civilization.\n\nOur very popular and estimable representative in Egypt died in April last. An unpleasant altercation which arose between the temporary incumbent of the office and the government of the Pacha resulted in a suspension of intercourse. The evil was promptly corrected on the arrival of the successor in the consulate, and our relations with Egypt, as well as our relations with the Barbary powers, are entirely satisfactory.\n\nThe rebellion which has so long been flagrant in China, has at last been suppressed, with the co-operating good offices of this government, and of the other western commercial states. The judicial consular establishment there has become very difficult and onerous, and it will need legislative revision to adapt it to the extension of our commerce, and to the more intimate intercourse which has been instituted with the government and people of that vast empire. China seems to be accepting with hearty good-will the conventional laws which regulate commercial and social intercourse among the western nations.\n\nOwing to the peculiar situation of Japan, and the anomalous form of its government, the action of that empire in performing treaty stipulations is inconstant and capricious. Nevertheless, good progress has been effected by the western powers, moving with enlightened concert. Our own pecuniary claims have been allowed, or put in course of settlement, and the inland sea has been reopened to commerce. There is reason also to believe that these proceedings have increased rather than diminished the friendship of Japan towards the United States."

summary: Summary: In Abraham Lincoln's Fourth Annual Message, he expresses gratitude for good health and abundant harvests. He discusses the United States' foreign relations, including maintaining neutrality in Mexico's civil war and involvement in various projects such as a river survey in Central America and the overland telegraph between America and Europe. He mentions the friendly relations with South American states, the ongoing civil war in the Spanish part of San Domingo, and the improvement in relations with Liberia. Lincoln also discusses the situation in China, where rebellion has been suppressed, and Japan, where progress has been made in performing treaty stipulations.

keywords: Keywords:  Fourth Annual Message, December 6, 1864, Abraham Lincoln, foreign relations, Mexico, civil war, Central America, river survey, overland telegraph, South American states, San Domingo, Liberia, China, Japan, treaty stipulations.

