Sir MATTHEW BEGBIE, Chief Justice of British Columbia, returned the following answers:

1. Chinamen in British Columbia appear to follow any description of industry which may appear useful, i.e., in which they can obtain employment or earn their livelihood. I should say by far the larger number of them trust to the pick and shovel: either agricultural, or road-making, or mining. There are many who mine for gold on their own account, working chiefly on the bars of rivers and water-courses, with rockers and flumes. Many are, or were recently, employed at Nanaimo in coal mines, both above and below ground. Many undertake gardening and small farms. Another large class take to domestic service; scarcely any establishment in the province has any other servants. Another large class take to trade; they have the whole business of supplying their fellow countrymen, and some firms compete with the most respectable Europeans in general trade. The menial businesses of washing and of splitting and Chinese washer sawing stovewood are almost entirely engrossed by Chinamen. I do not believe there are many mechanics, properly so-called. I only know of their being employed in two manufactures: shoes and cigars. There are few carpenters. They are employed about every building; but generally as mixers of mortar, hodmen, wheel-barrowmen: not as masons, or brick- layers, or carpenters. Every Chinaman in British Columbia has the air of having worked, and of being ready to work, with his hands, except a few who practice as medical men and the leading commercial men.

2. So far as I have observed, they are invariably ready and anxious to go to any kind of work immediately on their arrival here; and fit for work so far as health is concerned.

3. I am sorry to say we have no system of public poor relief, or of public relief of any kind, except the hospitals and the asylum. Chinamen do not much trouble the hospitals. I never heard of Chinamen becoming a burden on the private charity of the whites. I have an indistinct remembrance of having been once asked to contribute to the cost of removing a disabled Chinaman; I am not sure. Such cases must be extremely rare. Nothing is more common than to be called on to relieve whites by private charity.

4. To answer this question fully is to destroy the force and meaning of the answer. Industry, economy, sobriety, and law-abidingness are exactly the four prominent qualities of Chinamen as asserted both by their advocates and their adversaries. Lazy, drunken, extravagant, and turbulent: this is, by the voices of their friends and foes, exactly what a Chinaman is not. This is, on the whole, I think, the real cause of their unpopularity. If Chinamen would only be less industrious and economical, if they would but occasionally get drunk, they would no longer be the formidable competitors with the white man which they prove to be in the labor market; there would be no longer a cry for their suppression. They would not be liked; the two races are too dissimilar, and each has too high an opinion of his own deserts. But they would not be hated; in fact they would not be here to excite hatred. The reason why they are here is, because their peculiar qualities command a ready market. If they had not these qualities, nobody would want them. If nobody wanted them, they would not come. But these qualities meet with no competition here; and the Chinaman sees no person to take his place were he to abdicate it. I have heard an individual Chinaman stigmatized as "lazy ;" but the fact was he conceived himself insulted, and was sulking. Their never-ending, ceaseless toil is like nothing but an ant-hill. I cannot recall to memory that I ever saw or heard of a Chinaman being drunk. Extravagant they certainly are not, though they live well when they can afford it, both inside and out: chicken and silk jacket. And they certainly do sometimes run in debt, both in trade debts and in gambling, which is their chief vice. There is scarcely an epithet so removed from the notion of a Chinaman as "turbulent," though of course they may be provoked to resist violence. They are somewhat given to petty thefts, and so not thefts. invariably law-abiding. But these thefts are rarely, if ever, accompanied by violence or threats against the person. Indeed it may be conjectured that they generally steal through want. For, looking to their universal. employment as domestics, their large brotherhoods, necessarily impenetrably secret to the whites, and the unguarded condition of our houses, the pilfering by Chinamen servants is really quite inconsiderable. I believe that two of the white servants I have had have pilfered more from me  than any twenty Chinamen in Victoria ever stole from their employers..

5. Yes; better than white men do with each other. They are notoriously excellent tenants, paying rent punctually.

6. So far as I see, I do not quite understand how they could, except, perhaps, in commerce. They have some firms, wealthy and busy for British Columbia firms; but I do not think these compete for European consignments.

7. Those who stayed in Victoria and the lower country, chiefly engaged in domestic service, washing, etc. These certainly supplied a want then felt; but I do not think they were ever much encouraged or welcomed, except that they found employment readily on terms satisfactory to themselves. The greater part took their picks and shovels to the gold mines. I cannot say they were much wanted there; nor was their coming there, so far as I recollect, much welcomed or encouraged. On the contrary, they were from the first thoroughly unpopular in the mines; the mining population being very Californian in its prejudices, its likings and dislikings. Nor do I think that the feeling has much changed, although they now go quite freely to the Cariboo, and have for many years; also to the Cassiar. They did not go to those districts at first, for obvious reasons; I think the police could scarcely have guaranteed them.

8 and 9. I do not think that the feeling of the whites against Chinamen has much changed; but I do not recollect anything that can be called "agitation " against them until Confederation. The agitation is of the same description as that felt by the hand-loom weavers against the power-looms; by the flail-wielders against the threshing-machines in England fifty years ago; by the Solway fishermen against the stake-nets in the last century; by the lower orders in many parts of Europe against the Jews; and by the coal-miners in Pennsylvania against the machineborers at the present day. That seems to be the impulsive force which brings into action the ever-present dislike between the Indo-Caucasian and this branch of Mongolians. This dislike, which otherwise might lie dormant or inert, is certainly mutual; it is manifested in China, we are- told, more extensively and stringently than here, and without any impulse  there from direct competition for bread. Europeans at Canton or Shanghai are not safe beyond their allotted cantonments, any more than a Chinaman would have been on Williams Creek twenty years ago. The Chinaman is in every respect the reverse of an European, except that he is a man. His religion, his notions of honor and rank, his mode of thought, his dress, his amusements, his sense of beauty, his vices, are not to our taste at all, or such as we can take to or even understand; and his language, spoken or written, appears to us at once incomprehensible and ridiculous. Yet they as evidently despise all our attainments and ways; and, what is most annoying, they come here and beat us on our own ground in supplying our own wants. They are inferior, too, in weight and size of muscle, and yet they work more steadily and with better success on the average than white men.

A distinguished political writer of the present day speaking of the Judenhetze in Europe, thus expresses himself :

" What is it that in every age, and in so many and in so different countries, not only ancient, but to-day, in Russia, Germany, Roumania, causes this hatred of the Jews? An intuitive antipathy, jealousy mingled with contempt. The Roumanian finds himself in company with a large number of people of alien race, of feelings, traditions and religion quite different from his-people who do not own the same ties of fatherland as he, who do not intermarry with him or his kindred, and whose domestic institutions are unknown and perhaps unintelligible to him. So in Germany. There can be no doubt that the Judenhetze derived its strength, not from the historical arguments of Professor Von Treitschke nor from the Christian arguments of court preacher Stoeker, but from the widespread sense that the Jews were out-bidding the Christian Germans in the market."

Evidently such competition must be put down. In the central portions of Europe, this is attempted in a barbarous way-by brute force, by fire and bludgeons. But countries of a higher political organization are provided with more tranquil and equally effective methods; and, with a few regrettable exceptions, these latter methods only, in the main, have been pursued here. Accordingly, before the close of the First Parliament after Confederation, Chinamen were deprived of the right of franchise, which they had previously enjoyed. This was on the ostensible ground that all Chinamen were actuated merely by direct money considerations. It is highly probable that they are as accessible to bribery as the ordinary white voter, but I am not aware that any enquiry was made or evidence aken on the point. On the other hand, some years later, it was sworn in evidence before the Kootenay Commission, 1878, that the majority of voters (at that time all whites) in a certain district had received money for their votes at the last previous election. This statement passed without comment or contradiction. No disfranchisement was suggested on this ground. Everything else follows logically. The constituencies are of exclusively white race, with no property qualification. Members of the legislature in a constitutional state are in duty bound to take the views of their constituencies as expressed at the polls; and to support such measures as please their constituents. This is their ratio existendi, unless they do so, they would at the next election cease to be returned. A constitutional ministry is bound to see their line of duty in the path indicated by the votes of the majority of the house-they are, in fact, a sort of managing committee to carry into effect the wishes of that majority. They hold office on that condition. And what the local house cannot enact of itself, they, and their committee of management, are bound to obtain or attempt by all the means in their power to obtain from the superior legislature.

The same distinguished writer whom I have already quoted on the Judenhetze, observes, in speaking of the rival programmes in the existing presidential campaign in the United States: "The Irish vote or the republican working man cannot be wooed successfully without attacks on the bloated capitalist, on English tyranny or treachery, or on the unfortunate immigrants from China.” Mutato nomine. The names of races and states may be changed, but human nature remains the same with Celt, and Slave, and Semite, and Mongolian.

10. I do not think their habits or mode of life are really injurious to the public peace or the public health; not more than the habits of the whites. There are several matters alleged against Chinamen: One is the extraordinarily small space into which a cluster of them will retire for rest. Four or five, or even ten or twelve, will be on a raised platform, almost like a litter of puppies. It is said this is dangerous in a sanitary view. I believe it is forbidden in London to lodge people for hire, without a certain number of cubic feet in the room to each inmate. But I have seen in a good-sized house, where there was plenty of cubic space, and where each person might have had a separate bunk, five or six Chinamen, not lodgers but owners, sleeping in a heap as above described. It does not appear to affect their health unfavorably.

It is common to attribute to Chinamen generally, that they are infested with disgusting diseases -- e. g., leprosy. I believe this is pure imagination; an absolutely unfounded report. When an orator talks of Chinese lepers, it is exactly the same unmeaning abuse as when a Canton periodical holds out to popular indignation the foreign "red devils." There is no leprosy or diabolism in the case; though of course a Chinaman, like any other man, may be a leper. The orator merely wishes to impress his audience with the belief that 'he strongly objects to Chinamen. But if the orator be in a position to keep a servant, he certainly keeps at his home one or more of these "lepers," who cook all his food, wash all his clothes, his glasses and his plate, waits at his table, kneads all the pastry he eats, and makes all the beds he and his family sleep in. A Chinaman was once pointed out to me who was alleged to be a leper. No doubt he had a very disgusting skin disease; I did not examine him at all; on the contrary, I kept as far off as possible. It may have been leprosy, which is not always identical in its manifestations. He seemed to be quite as shocking to his own countrymen as to the whites. He was being shipped away when pointed out to me. That was the only case of skin disease I remember to have noticed or heard of among Chinamen. Such diseases, generally the result of vice, or hereditary taint, are by no means unknown here among the whites and half- breeds. I have seen many. These certainly were not contracted from Chinamen.

It is alleged against them that they are inordinately given to the use of opium I do not know whether eaten, or smoked, or both-and that their example is dangerous to the whites. I altogether disbelieve in any widespread mischief here from opium. Most nations and tribes in the world, even savages, are given to the use of sedatives or narcotics of some description. The Chinese, and I believe other Asiatic nations, use opium extensively. In whole provinces, each as large as England, the poppy is the chief agricultural crop, all for home use, none being exported. The enormous consumption which this implies does not appear to prevent Chinamen from being the most prolific race, the most indefatigable laborers, and the keenest traders in the world. If any Chinamen here abuse the drug by over-indulgence, they must hide themselves, or at all events they have entirely escaped my observation. If their example persuades any white people to similar over-indulgence, of which I am equally ignorant, these must be a very degraded class-weaker and more degraded than the Chinaman whose expulsion is demanded. Opium, as generally used here, is probably as harmless as tobacco, which is also extensively used in British Columbia by Chinamen. They have manufactories here for their own consumption; and they probably consume far more tobacco than opium. Neither opium nor tobacco extend in their evil effects beyond the individual. They are not nearly as dangerous to the public peace as whiskey. I am very far from thinking, and I wish not to be understood as at all insinuating, that whiskey causes crime, or induces a criminal intention; on the contrary, it seems reasonable to hold that intoxication often renders a criminal intention impossible, and still more often lessens the criminality of the offence, which, committed deliberately by a sober man, would evince a deeper hue of guilt. But there can be no doubt but that drunkenness is the most frequent occasion of crime; that far more offences are committed by men under the influence of liquor than when in their sober senses. And to the injured party the offence is just as great, and very nearly as great to the community; whether committed under whiskey or not. All the evils arising from opium in British Columbia in a year do not, probably, equal the damage, trouble and expense occasioned to individuals and to the state by whiskey in a single month, or perhaps in some single night, As already observed, I do not remember ever to have seen a drunken Chinaman; and the argument against Chinamen founded on opium appears to be analogous to the comparison of the mote and the beam.

It is alleged that not only the aggregation of Chinamen in their dwellings is a source of danger to the public health, but that their habits are filthy. This last allegation I take to be mere unfounded abuse, if directed against them as a race. There are of course dirty Chinamen. Many of them are very poor, and are, perhaps, as dirty as poor white people; but that they are as a race dirty, or believed to be dirty, seems quite incompatible with the fact that they are as a race unanimously invested with a virtual monopoly of the two occupations requiring the highest degree of personal cleanliness, viz., cooking and washing. Any family in British Columbia will, at once, without any enquiry as to his cleanliness, admit the first Chinaman who offers as a cook-where a cook is wanted; and really it may be said that no washing is given out to people of any other nation. As to danger to the public peace, they are, I think, less inclined to crimes of personal violence, than men of any other races.They are occasionally dishonest, but the fact that they have (as being the races. vast majority of domestic servants) more opportunities for pilfering, than all the other inhabitants of British Columbia put together, and that very few serious thefts are laid to their charge, seems conclusive on this point.

11. Whether the presence of Chinamen is any longer desirable in British Colombia, is to a certain extent a matter of opinion. But as to the past, the undoubted facts are: 1st. That Chinamen are very large till within a year, mainly, employed in all the laborious parts of our coal mines ; 2nd. They constitute three-fourths of the working hands about every salmon cannery; 3rd. They are a very large majority of the laborers employed in gold mining; 4th. They are the model market gardeners of the province, and produce the greater part of the vegetables grown here; 5th. They have been found to be absolutely indispensable in the construction of the railway; 6th. They are largely, sometimes exclusively, employed in nearly every manufactory or undertaking of any description, not being under the authority of a board or council elected exclusively by white voters.

12. This is again a matter of opinion. I do not see how people would get on here at all without Chinamen. They do, and do well, what white get on without women cannot do, and do what white men will not do. If Chinamen were expelled, employers of labor would probably have to leave the province; and when they were gone, where would the employed be?

13. I do not know. Probably most people who now employ servants would go away. All canneries and many other successful establishments would be closed. The railway works (construction and repairs) would necessarily be suspended. People with any realized property who remained (if any remained) would be very uncomfortable, I should apprehend. People without any means would probably have very few employers to support them.

14. I should say, not a certain number, but an uncertain number, are necessary to be retained; to be imported, if all those now here should depart. How many depends upon circumstances. The supply would probably regulate itself as does the supply of horses. Would it be advisable. to banish all horses from the province? To do so, would open out many opportunities for white men's labor. Would it be desirable to secure a supply of half a million of horses ? They would probably eat us all up: i.e., devour all our means of subsistence. There are supposed to be in California more than 120,000 Chinamen. It is probable that in that state, as in British Columbia, a good deal more than half the manual labor is performed by Chinamen. It is, perhaps, worth while to refer to the condition of labor in the Californian vineyards and hop-grounds as mentioned quite incidentally in the San Francisco Weekly Bulletin, 10th September, 1884, and consider what would be the effect on the development of our infant agricultural country if half its laborers, and of its powers of supply of laborers, were suddenly cut off. The result might of course be ultimately beneficial ; but it is difficult to resist the opposite conclusion.

" Within a radius of two miles there are at this time no less than 500 Chinamen engaged in gathering the hop crop. So far as I can judge from a casual examination, the yield will be about equal to that of last year, and the quality of the hops excellent. It is quite an interesting sight to watch the process of picking and drying. For a field of twenty-five or thirty acres about 100 Chinamen are employed. They pick, two together, into large boxes, which hold 140 to 150 pounds of green hop. The two poles which are set in each hill of hops are pulled down, and the mass of hops laid across the box, which is covered with an apron to prevent the leaves falling in. The Chinamen work by contract, and they rush from morning till night, seeming never to tire. As soon as a box is filled a loud yell informs the foreman, who brings a sack, into which the box is emptied, and the Chinamen are given a check. Two Chinamen can pick from two to three boxes in a day, and as they receive $1.50 per box it will be seen that they are earning white men's wages. Last year they only received $1.25, but help at this time is scarce and the China bosses had only to demand the raise and get it. It is understood that they will demand $1:25 a day for grape picking, and no doubt the demand will have to be complied with."

15. This involves a calculation of an almost impossible nature; quite impossible for me. What are the best interests of the colony? Who knows what white people may come here? In what number, or what seeking, or for what qualified ?

16. It is of course impossible to prophesy; but as far as I can judge of human nature, the first cargo of capitalists, under the supposed conditions, would not stop here long, and would frighten all other cargoes away. A capitalist, with any common sense, wants either to enjoy his money or to employ it; which are indeed the only two plans by which his capital can be of advantage to his fellow man. But if the supply of service were limited, as mentioned in the question, it seems very clear that he could neither employ nor enjoy his money, and he would take himself elsewhere. I do not say that the sum of human felicity here, or anywhere, would be diminished by the absence of capitalists; but there is surely no method so likely to deter them as to limit in any way the supply of the only importable article which they really require. The greatest natural advantages in fisheries, mines, ports, are quite sterile unless operated on by labor, and capital is necessary to support that labor. But capital alone would be quite useless without labor; and would be little likely either to visit or remain in a province, where it would merely consume away.

It does not seem generally understood by those who work with their hands, that unless the result of their handiwork, is marketably worth more than the money they receive for wages, their employment must soon stop. The lowest limit of wages is the money which will buy the necessaries of life for the laborer. The highest limit is the whole of the augmented value which his labor confers on the material operated on. If the laborer accepts less than the first, he will die of want. If the employer give the whole of the second, he will leave himself nothing to live upon, and will speedily die of want in his turn, unless he more speedily retire from his undertaking and place his capital in the funds: when he will at last get interest. Between these two impassable limits the rate of wages oscillates according to supply and demand. Now the only paying industries here are the canneries and shoe factories, in both of which the labor is almost exclusively Chinese. Owing to a very great superiority in the mineral, the coal mines have paid largely, notwithstanding the rates of white miners wages, unequalled elsewhere; but the coal mines have hitherto largely employed Chinamen also. Few other established industries have accumulated any gains.

After all that I have said about Chinamen, I can lay no more claim to consistency than anybody else in British Columbia. They are generally abused, and yet everybody employs them. I have always asserted their good qualities; but I have never in twenty-six years had a Chinaman in my house, an expensive whim that nobody else has indulged in. Still, I have had my opportunities of seeing and hearing, for in all that time, I do not think I ever knew a family that did not employ at least one Chinaman.

17 and 18. See answer to 15.

19. The combination which it is intended to suggest would be, I suppose, that the legislature should forbid such arrivals of Chinamen, and that the white population should " boycott " those remaining here; or else that the legislature should decree their expulsion. But this would not suffice. It would in addition be necessary that the employers should raise the rate of wages, sufficiently to induce an equivalent influx of new white labor to replace the expelled or boycotted Mongolians: the present rates, $2 per day, for unskilled labor being barely sufficient to attract or retain the whites already here. It may be doubted whether employers would or could, voluntarily and unaided, adhere to this part of the combination. The ordinary class of unskilled labor offered in the market here(and the same is the experience of other colonies) is very unsatisfactory, and the existing tariff has reached perhaps the utmost limit at which employers can continue to exist. Therefore, lest the "combined effort " should fail, it would be necessary that a minimum rate, say of $5 per day (which would probably suffice to attract additional white labor) should be fixed by law. But it would take 6,000 new whites to do the work of the expelled Mongolians. In order to supply these with places, it would be further necessary to enact that each person in the employing class must employ from five to fifty of the new comers, at the improved rates. Only one more ordinance would then be required in order to bring the " combined effort " into full effect, viz., to make provision for supplying employers out of the public purse with funds to meet this drain on their resources. It is unnecessary to speculate upon the development thus accruing to the material resources of the colony.

20. I never heard of any person, white, black, or yellow, who had labor- British Columbia. to sell that was worth buying, who could not in this province find a ready employer. But in order to get remunerative employment here or anywhere else in the world, a man must be able to do remunerative work. And the misery is, that many men who profess to be willing to turn their hands to anything know nothing to which they can usefully turn their hands. Handicrafts require teaching and practice, and they have never learned. The normal rates of wages are five shillings for Chinamen, and in Victoria eight shillings for white men. Below that rate no white man, even if penniless and hungry, is willing to engage upon any work or service whatever. Skilled artisans, carpenters, masons, blacksmiths ask from twelve to twenty shillings a day. Board is advertised at many hotels at sixteen shillings a week : so I suppose eight shillings a day is remunerative to the workman within the meaning of this question. A miner was recently pointed out to me at Nanaimo in the employ of the Vancouver Coal Company, an ordinary hewer and sinker, who has been in the employ of the company and its predecessors at the current wages of the day for the last thirty years. He has brought up and educated respectably a large family of sons and daughters, all of whom are most respectably married or self-supporting now. He has had no pecuniary aid whatever but his wages, and I was told that he has been able to lay by as a provision for old age (but he is still at regular work) the sum of between $30,000 and $40,000. This, I imagine, may be taken to be a reasonable provision for old age, within the meaning of the question. He has never drank, nor gambled, nor dressed his wife and daughters in silks and satins; he has enjoyed good health and freedom from accident. It is undeniable that every miner in Nanaimo, in proportion to his length of service, has had an equal opportunity of providing against old age, and such workmen would always be welcomed by employers. Of course, when a worker is unable to give to his employer the value of his wages, perhaps not the value of his board, no employer can stand that long, as already pointed out in answer 16.

21. I think it has had a very material effect indeed. For instance, since the beginning of the present year, three thousand souls, as I was informed, have been located in one limited district alone, on the south side of Fraser River, the opposite side to the railway. That is including wives and children.

22. I cannot believe that it has; on the contrary, as the presence of Chinamen has enabled some small capital to be accumulated, they must have augmented the wages fund in the province: i. e., the loose capital seeking to increase itself by the employment of reproductive labor.

I do not believe that any single European in the province would employ a Chinaman about any undertaking if he could procure an European, irrespective of wages, unless, of course, the European demanded wages which precluded all profit on the undertaking. Chinamen are employed not so much because their normal money tariff is lower than the whites and yet not much lower; many Chinamen get $30, and some even $35 and $40, per month-as because they are, as a rule, more sober, steady, docile and industrious. Their language is the great stumbling-block. With very few exceptions, indeed, I never met a Chinaman whom I could understand, beyond the commonest wants, or by whom I could feel any certainty that I was understood, even for an ordinary message. Yet I have often feared that I should be compelled to fall into the universal practice and take Chinese servants into my house-which I have never yet done. I have, indeed, been compelled to employ them indirectly; for there are things that white people simply refuse to do at all, e.g., wash and hew stove-wood.

I append a published list of railway labor rates for whites. The corporation of Victoria employ a good many about the streets; their tariff rates is, I believe, $2 per day; and the work seems by no means to call for over exertion. This table may also be applied to answer 20:

23. I have never personally observed any effect by the Chinese upon the morals of the white people. The latter have occasionally been induced by race- prejudice to indulge in acts of violence ; but it would be too much to say from thence that the Chinaman had corrupted his cowardly assailants. One Chinaman, last year, pleaded guilty to an indictment for indecent assault on two girls of ten or eleven and twelve or thirteen years. I am not sure that he quite understood the effect of his plea, nor am I at all sure that a jury would have convicted a white man on the evidence in the depositions; but I felt sure he had acted abominably, whether tempter or tempted, though I don't think it was he who had corrupted the childrens' morals in the least. However that is the only case I remember in which it could be alleged that a Chinaman had had any evil effect upon the morals of the whites, a matter upon which they can have but very little influence, either for good or evil. Whites who have evil communications with Chinese must themselves be lamentably depraved beforehand; and so, I should be disposed to say, immoral Chinese are not only not more injurious, but they are quite innocuous to the morals of the whites, in comparison with white people of similar or allied habits.

24 and 25. I have seen unmistakable prostitutes in the Chinese quarter of Victoria. But I never noticed any indecent words or gestures, nor anything comparable to what used to be seen any night in Holborn or the Strand; and, from all I have seen and heard, I should say that they do not flaunt their vice and depravity at all. Many will say that they are none the better for that, that Naples, and Paris, and Brussels are worse than London, though the latter displays her vice infinitely more openly. Drunken whites, I am sorry to say, are often to be seen in Victoria, by night or by day; but I do not remember ever to have seen a Chinaman under the influence of liquor. Debauched whites sometimes frequent, I believe, Chinese brothels, as they do Indian brothels. I don't think serious breaches of the peace are proportionately more frequent in Chinese brothels than in those kept by white women. Indian brothels breed the most disturbances; and they are close to the Chinese quarter. This is my notion, but any constable's opinion is far more valuable.

26. As stated in my answer to enquiry ten, I have never seen or heard of more than one case alleged to be leprosy; whether that case was leprosy or not, I cannot say. Of course I have no knowledge of that disease having been communicated to any white person in British Columbia, and I never saw or heard anything which would induce me to believe for an instant that there is the slightest foundation for any such insinuation. It is mere unmeaning abuse.

27. I have omitted to state that Chinamen here are generally divided into two tribes, or clans-there may be more, but I have often had my attention drawn to these two-viz .: "Canton" and "Hong Kong." Between these clans there is often much jealousy, and sometimes ill blood. Their dialects are in many respects dissimilar, not only in pronunciation, but to such an extent as to have different names for common things; and they very often do not well understand each other, perhaps not better than a Northumberland farm-laborer would understand one from Essex or Dorsetshire. When a breach of the peace occurs among Chinamen, the culprits are generally Canton versus Hong Kong; and when these come into court, either in criminal or civil cases, it is common to allow each side to have an interpreter; as well to watch that the evidence is truly interpreted as also to explain it to their respective clients.

Owing partly to this, and partly also to their unintelligibility to whites, and vice versa, it is usual when twenty or thirty hands are engaged, e. g., at a cannery, not to make the contract with each workman separately, but with some one Chinaman who has learned some English, leaving him to sub-contract with the men; and he being the sole medium of communication between them and the owner of the cannery, this arrangement, though unavoidable, necessarily leaves the men a good deal at the mercy of this foreman. Sometimes this takes place on a much larger scale, and a Chinese merchant here will contract for a whole cargo of Chinamen, fresh from China, whom he engages to provide with employment, and then drafts them out to different employers here, for roads, canneries, etc. All wages are paid to him, and he retains a portion from each workman as his fee. These arrangements, I believe, give rise to the assertion that the whole cargo imported are the slaves of the importer.

Another circumstance has probably induced a similar conclusion. Their laws and customs of marriage and divorce, as in all non-Christian nations, are widely different from ours. They are much more simple and arbitrary. A wife is usually purchased in a very direct way, without any of the circumlocution which too often veils similar transactions among whites. Divorces are effected by mere expressions of the will. A miner who feels no shame in purchasing the possession of a female for a single night for $20, is scandalized when a Chinaman pays $500 for the possession of a female for six months, or until they disagree. No disgust is felt by Europeans when parents make it a sine qua non on consenting to their daughters' marriage that the husband shall settle ten or twenty thousand dollars upon her; but it is infamous if a Chinaman purchases the consent of parents or guardians for one thousand dollars. It is evidence that the female is a mere slave; and that opinion is conclusively established when the husband, after the fashion of his people, hands her over to a second husband for a similar amount. The woman is a slave sold into prostitution, but the Chinese themselves look upon it in a different light. There was a case not long ago in court, before myself, on habeas corpus: A Chinese girl was contracted to marry a man who had offered the guardians five hundred dollars. Another suitor came forward, to whom, at first, it seemed to me, she had no manner of objection, till it turned out that he proposed to take her from her guardians by virtue of the British law of liberty and free choice and without making them any compensation whatever. From that moment she seemed to have taken the strongest distaste to the man who placed no value upon her, and insisted upon going to him who esteemed her worth, at all events, five hundred dollars more than nothing. I apprehend much of what is said about Chinese slavery and prostitution proceeds from imperfect consideration of the difference between Christian and non-Christian marriage; but I only guess this, I know scarcely anything about it.

Another ground on which I have heard it asserted that slavery is general among Chinamen here, is rather, I suspect, a proof of their freedom, or would be so accepted among whites. It is that they demand wages, not such as they would take if left to their own choice, but such as are dictated by certain leaders, who subsist on a percentage of those wages.

I have no doubt but that they have some sort of trades-unions, whose officers and head-centres are supported by subscriptions from the wages received; themselves deciding both on each man's wages and on his subscription. I have no doubt but that compulsion is put on all Chinamen, so that it is very difficult for them to obtain work, if they remain outside this organization. But Messrs. Broadhead, Odger and Arch would indignantly deny that their supporters were slaves.

It is yet further urged against the Chinese, as showing their unfitness to dwell in the land, that they show no respect to our laws, nor to our appointed courts, but refer their differences to private tribunals of their own, whose behests are carried out, irrespective of their conformity with our laws and are never disputed in our courts. As to this I know nothing ; but it seems so probable that it may be assumed to be true. The Chinese, like most other nations with any pretence to civilization, have some methods for referring private disputes to arbitrators chosen by the parties themselves. Such methods are known and practised among all white people; and very extraordinary some of the results are occasionally found to be. That the awards of Chinese arbitrators are always accepted without demur (if the fact be as alleged) would surely be a strong evidence of the equity of the award, and the good sense of the parties in difference; for it is utterly untrue that Chinamen ignore our courts, or treat them with any want of respect. It is as well established as anything touching the feelings and dispositions of these people can be, that they place perfect. confidence in the administration of justice by our officials; and they testify their submission to and acquiescence in the judgments of our courts by every means apparently in their power.

I am very sorry that I can state nothing positive on these last points. I have hitherto had no motive to enquire; and I should view the results of any enquiries with much distrust. Any questions as to their labor associations, their clans, their marriage laws, their immigration contracts, would, I fear, be in general met with suspicion and answered with reluctance. There are very few who could understand the questions; fewer still, probably, who could answer usefully; and to appreciate an answer properly requires a preliminary knowledge in the questioner, which is, exactly what is wanting. Add to this a possible affectation of stupidity, a possible affectation of intelligence, perhaps a reluctance to answer precisely, and a willingness that the enquirer should be balked-apart from the possibility of wilful deceit-all this shows how difficult and uncertain such an enquiry would be here. There is a great conflict of opinion as to. the nature and results of trades-unions at home, after every enquiry possible; how much more difficult would it be to arrive at facts here, where they must necessarily be shrouded behind the impenetrable and irresponsible screen of a Chinese interpreter?

MATTHEW B. BEGBIE.



