The Hon. Mr. Justice CREASE, Judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia, submits the following answers :-

1. The classes of persons who come here as emigrants from China are almost entirely the lowest class of laborers or coolies, with a sprinkling of merchants ; no mechanics or artisans, no skilled laborers.

2. They usually arrive in good bodily health and fit for work. There was a cry of leprosy, but it was disproved by our own doctors.

3. There is no system of poor relief in British Columbia. There are no poor. There are benevolent societies, confined to particular nationalities (in name only), which extend aid in cases of sickness or the like. On these the Chinese do not come. They have their own benevolent society recently established. Previously their sick were sent to our hospitals and so became chargeable on our charity in hospital cases, or were cared for by their own people. They are never that I am aware of a burden on private charity.

4. They are kat' exocheen industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding, and in all those respects quite a pattern to the whites, and have always been so. It is because of these very qualities that white labor is jealous of them. As a class, indeed as individuals, they are neither lazy, drunken, extravagant nor turbulent. I have never seen in all these years (twenty-five) a drunken Chinaman. Occasionally on the railway works where they have suffered, or fancied they suffered great frauds at the hands of their own middlemen, sometimes even at the hands of the white foremen, they have resisted, and violent assaults have been the consequence. For these they have been severely punished whenever they have come before the courts. As in all large bodies of workmen, especially that lower substratum of labor from which some of our railway labor has been recruited, especially in British Columbia, bad individuals have been refractory and created trouble, but not more than, probably not so much as, on other similar works in the neighboring states. Among themselves (the Chinese) crimes of violence, even occasional murders have occurred, which from the secrecy of their mode of life, or our ignorance of it, have defied the investigations of the police. But this failure very likely arises from the almost universal ignorance in British Columbia of the Chinese language. There is not a single Anglo-Chinese dictionary or grammar to be obtained either here or at San Francisco. It has generally been supposed from the secrecy with which some murders were committed (they are confined to two or three Chinese murders altogether in many years), which have occurred in British Columbia undiscovered, that the victims were executed by the decrees of some secret Chinese tribunal, like the Vehm-Gericht, having its centre in San Francisco, but I have not been able to discover a single fact which tended to corroborate that suspicion.

5. They are punctual to the extreme in money matters. They think Their life made up, as much of a shilling as we do of a dollar. When they have by laborious degrees obtained money, they are as ready as any white man to enter into mining or other speculations all through the country. They are punctuality itself in meeting their pecuniary obligations and carrying out their contracts. In all these years that I have been continuously in British Columbia (namely, twenty-five), I do not know of a single case of a Chinaman who has been in the bankruptcy or insolvent court. This is not because they have not credit, for Chinese merchants, punctual to the day and hour in monetary engagements, can obtain what credit they please, (money is of no nationality), but this fact is accounted for because they are practically scrupulously honest. In all this they set an admirable example to white men. What British Columbia wants is small coin, and small economies, as a system to inculcate practically the habit of frugality.

6. In coming to British Columbia, and while here, the Chinese have no idea of interfering with the property of the white population in any way beyond the ordinary competition which they offer in the labor market. They are not mechanics or artisans.

7. When the Chinese first came to this place they supplied a felt want, one which had become almost intolerable in the way of labor and domestic service. The white settlers who first came to the country were very few in number, and had their own work to attend to. Those who followed in the search after gold all wanted to be "bosses," or either their own masters or superintendents of other men's work. When the railway office was first opened for white laborers in British Columbia, out of every hundred some eighty wanted to be "bosses." The prices they charge for white labor here have, ever since I have been here-that is, since my arrival in 1858-been simply prohibitive to the ordinary employer of labor : $2, $2.50, and even at times $3 a day for ordinary labor ; for mechanics, $3, $4, $5, or more per day. All the first settlers who came here arrived without money. It required a large sum, as well as a long time, an adventurous spirit, and lots of pluck even to get here with a family, 15,000 miles from home in those days. The country was a wilderness. All food and manufactured articles, such as clothing, tools, machinery, etc., were exceedingly dear. We had houses, churches, gaols, court-houses, and all other buildings to erect ; roads through forest and swamp to clear out and build ; trunk roads through the country in all directions to make ; in short, everything required for civilization the first settlers had to do ab initio, out of their own labor and savings, or money they could borrow from San Francisco. All this was effected without assistance from the imperial treasury, which, in every other British colony, had contributed largely to launch its infant offspring into political life. British Columbia had to be, and was, self-supporting from its birth. There is no other British colony with such a record. The proximity of British Columbia to its flourishing neighbor, the United States, while in some respects a great advantage-for this country at first possessed no capital or staple until gold broke out, and was dependent not only for capital, but for breadstuffs, cattle, clothing, groceries, indeed supplies of all kinds, on San Francisco and Oregon-was in other respects a great disadvantage. All the white labor which failed in obtaining in British Columbia the high pay expected, had only to cross the border, an imaginary line close at hand, to obtain it. The Indians could not be depended upon at first on account of their numbers, which in those days were threatening, nor afterwards on account of their restless, nomadic propensities, which prevented them settling down to any permanent, industrious avocations. The English settlers had all the household and servile occupations to discharge themselves : chop and cut wood, get water, clean the dishes, pots and pans ; cook, wash, bake, sew, and rear families, and discharge all the other onerous and multifarious duties of the ménage. In this strait a few, myself among the number, chartered several ships with female servants from England round the Horn. We paid £30 ($150) a head for their passage, on engagements of gradual repayment out of wages at colonial rates after they arrived-a payment which, with a few honorable exceptions, I need hardly say, was rarely ever made. That proving a complete failure, Kanakas from the Sandwich Islands were tried and also failed ; so, by the mere process of exhaustion no resource was left but Chinese labor, which was accordingly employed, at first, very reluctantly. Every one had a great and not unnatural objection to try them ; but necessity has no law, it was Chinese labor or none at all. At first they were imported from San Francisco in isolated instances ; but gradually as the white woman saw her neighbor get some relief from the killing domestic slavery of colonial life she also adopted them, and, by the sheer necessity of the case, their employment as domestic servants became general, and at last universal. Such white labor as could be had was eminently unsatisfactory, not only on account of scarceness and price, but because, especially female servants, they would not submit to consider themselves in the household arrangements as in any respect subordinate to their employers. Immigrants who went to the mines, as in Cariboo, could get $10 a day, and some of them got claims yielding in many instances, and for a considerable period 600 ounces of gold to every wash-up. Success of this kind made ordinary labor to those engaged in that avocation ever after distasteful. It is not too much to say that without Chinese servants the privations in family life, extreme and of wearying monotony, would have become intolerable, and a general exodus of families would have been the result. Indeed as it was numerous industrious settlers with wives and families were driven out of the country on that account. The high prices the Chinese obtained from the first, as wages, up to the present day, are a very fair test of the necessity for their employment. From $15 per month, the lowest to an inferior man, up to $35 a month for the best (with board and lodging be it remembered) have been the continuous rates. Young boys, even $8 or $10. It is a singular fact that Chinese servants are the only class of people that are positively paid to learn their duty. This arises from their peculiar facility in adapting themselves to any work they have to learn, and their success in acquiring that knowledge. But if white servants, who would do the same work, and as well, at anything like the same wages, and who could be depended on to stay, were to offer themselves, they would have been gladly accepted. But as a rule white domestic labor such as it is has constantly been tried and found wanting. White laborers attracted from the East by the prices here, invariably "fall into the ways of the country," and refuse to work at anything like what ordinary employers of labor consider reasonable or practicable rates. The relief given by Chinese aid to overworked households when sorely needed created a good feeling towards them. This good feeling lasted for some time. Their number was limited and no serious fears had yet been entertained of their competition in the labor market.

8. This good feeling continued more or less until about the time of the commencement of the Canadian Pacific Railway works in the province.

9. Then a very laudable feeling arose that, if possible, such a vast expenditure of public money should be utilized by bringing into the province white settlers, who should become heads of families, take root in the soil and add greatly to the substantial strength of the Dominion. To this end it was deemed desirable that all the labor on the railway should be white labor, whose earnings would be spent and invested in the country, instead of going to a foreign country. And then began the cry, “No Chinese need apply !" But experience soon showed that the hope of any exclusive employment of white labor was far from being realized. The American and continental railways were simultaneously large rival bidders in the labor market. White labor in quantity and quality sufficient was unattainable, and nothing is more certain than that in the absence of Chinese labor the enormous railway works, which are now progressing to completion, would have been indefinitely prolonged, if not postponed to the Greek Kalends from sheer want of hands. The outcry against the Chinese takes its rise in a great measure in the efforts of persons, who, for political motives, are desirous of posing themselves as the friends of the working classes, through their sweet votes to gain political power and influence. All political parties, the "ins " as well as the " outs," aim at this ; and through the press and orations, and even no little misrepresentation, -exaggerate. Admitted objections to their being adopted as citizens, and to too large an influx of a heathen element in our midst, were distorted into a desire for the proscription of the whole race. The bait to the working man : the exclusive command of the labor market. All political parties tend to this, and urge collectively the passing of laws which they do not hesitate, as individuals, to class as unconstitutional, in the hope that by constant clamor and agitation, in one direction, to overbear all the solid considerations on the other side, to break through all treaties which place Chinese on an equal footing with other nations, to impose illegal taxes and discriminating restrictions so that that may be obtained by injustice and persecution which could never be expected from justice and right. The object of course being to restrict the admission or, if possible, procure the total exclusion of Chinese labor and to win the sweet votes of the working man. The practical result of which, if successful, would necessarily be to create the worst of all monopolies, next to that of capital : the tyranny of labor under whose withering blight mines, fisheries, manufactures, arts, and improvements of all kinds would speedily languish or die, and the development of the country, to which it is undeniable the labor of the Chinese has so largely contributed, would be indefinitely retarded and cui bono ?

10. One chief outcry has been against their habits and mode of living as being injurious to the public peace and health. Coming from a swarming population in China, and, as I have stated, of the lower order of coolies, they have undoubtedly a tendency to congregate ; at all events to submit to being cooped in large numbers within a small area. But this in British Columbia is directly owing to the fact that as foreigners, held in dangerous disesteem by an active section of the whites, they naturally cling together for protection and support. Their very language keeps them together and apart from the whites; but much of this overcrowding is attributable to the whites themselves, who extort heavy rents from them for very scant house accommodation, and they accentuate the very evil for which in public they profess such profound dislike. Much has been said of their immorality, habits of prostitution, opium dens and gambling houses, and there is a. certain amount, indeed too great an amount, of truth in these accusations. It would be unreasonable to expect that a low class of laborers in any country should be free from such evils. All these, however, can be as readily dealt with by the police as the same vicious habits among the whites. Indeed the latter in several respects do not gain by the comparison. For the Chinese do not parade their vices ; their prostitutes do not set up large houses in the most prominent places, with brass plates on the door, or ply their trade with an air of semi-publicity, nor drive about in open carriages, or flaunt themselves on public race courses and assemblages, or advertise for the payment of debts due to them through the medium of the public press. Their "opium dens " and "gambling dens " are all known to the police and capable of being suppressed. But what of the white dens : whiskey establishments, and gambling saloons, and the sale of liquor to Indians, who get it by the canoe load and wholesale ? I do not say that all these evils whether white or Chinese should not be determinedly suppressed, but there is such a manifest spirit of exaggeration in the complaints that are made, for the purpose I have described, as very materially to lessen in impartial eyes the accusations levelled against the Chinese. They are as a class very cleanly in their persons ; indeed, as to all those matters laid to their charge, they are no worse than the same things done in our midst by white men themselves. If enquiry were made of the railway servants and the engineers on the permanent railway cuttings, what an account they can give of white, as well as Chinese abominations that abound there. Who that has seen a leading mainland town on the railway line on pay-days can ever forget the disgusting sights that everywhere met his eyes ? Furious drunken men in the streets, saloons and corners at all hours of the day and night, week-days and Sundays all alike, the fights, the uproar, the gambling, that made day and night hideous, besotted drunken whites kicked out of the houses, prostrate in the morning in the places where they fell over night sleeping off the effects of the previous debauch, only to stagger up and engage again in the same round of vice. These are the sights which one would fain forget, with other things about which the pen blushes to write.

11. But without the Chinese in any event the province could never have been developed as far as it has at present progressed. The best test of that is that we cannot, at present at all events, do without them. Their presence is not only necessary but in many respects desirable for the simple reason that the work must be done, and can only be done-in a province and by people, still very poor-through the agency of the Chinese or some similar labor. There is none other procurable at present which can do the work well.

13. If we ask ourselves what would be the effect of their suddenly going hence compulsorily or otherwise, the answer is immediate and overwhelming. The railway works would "peter out" for want of labor to construct them. The canneries would instantly be stopped. The shoe and other manufactories the same. The farmers would be at once injuriously affected. The coal mines would in several most important instances be abandoned. Improvements now only possible by Chinese labor would come to a sudden end, and the misery-domestic misery to 80 out of every 100 families here-would, to those who have not gone through it for so many years as we have, be inconceivable. It would be perfectly appalling. The wail of the housewife would sweep through the land, and find a very decided expression in every husband's vote at the polls, and that in a manner not very flattering to those who now affect to be the white laborer's friends. There is an unreality about this outcry against the Chinese that strikes one directly he takes pen in hand to write about the cry. on the subject. The advocates of exclusion make all the greater fuss over it, one is tempted to opine, the less likelihood they may think there is of its being carried out. The strike of the Chinese in Victoria when resisting an intentionally discriminating and illegal tax of $30 a head on all Chinese-although it occurred a few years ago-is too fresh in the recollection to be forgotten. The travelling public would soon let their voices be heard against such an exclusion ; for hotels and boarding houses would be shut up, or offer utterly inadequate accommodation. Every house would have to grow its own vegetables or pay an extortionate white price for them. Indeed the whole country would be in an uproar, and all its industries and progress would receive a check from which it would take many years of great suffering to recover-and for what ? All for a political cry : "We are ruined by Chinese cheap labor !" Yes ! The commonest manual labor cheap at from $15 to $35 a month and found !

14. The real fact is, and the more completely it is recognized the better, that we cannot do without a certain number of Chinese for manual labor and for domestic servants, and that throughout all British Columbia. For any great works, too, which have to be carried out, such for instance as railways, Chinese manual labor cannot at present be dispensed with. Good white labor is so far superior to Chinese, that it will of itself, when it can be contented with reasonable prices as in the East, infallibly work Chinese manual labor out of the field. No reasonable man will employ the labor of a person whose language he can never understand if he can get even as good service from one who cannot mistake his orders and can enter into all his wishes for the work in hand. But what is as necessary for the white man as the Chinaman is, that he should be sober, honest and steady at his work, and exhibit a fair share of all those qualities which go to constitute good labor. A certain number are at present an absolute necessity. At present all told, including the Chinese on railway works, and along the whole line, about 13,000. Of these there are probably only 5,000 or 6,000 engaged in domestic and family out-door work in the province including those in mines and canneries. So useful indeed have they been found that even in coal mines they have been employed by working miners themselves to assist them as their servants in getting out the, coal. They do not compete at all with mechanics, artisans, or handicraftsmen, or in any skilled labor. They are good market-gardeners, fair servants, and tolerable laborers; imitate quickly and learn quickly, and are good traders and merchants et voilà tout. They will never assimilate with the Anglo-Saxon race, nor is it desirable that they should. Certain degrees of labor contract of limited duration, amounting while it lasts to a species of slavery, are said to be common among them. Like all low classes of people they have a low estimate of women. They do not regard British Columbia as their home and when they die send their bones home to he buried in China.

15. It is very difficult, almost an impossibility, to fix any definite limit or even approximate of the proportion which Chinese immigration should bear to white immigration, if the best interests of the colony and the comfort of the people are to be regarded ; and if only for this reason that no matter how many white people come to British Columbiah, they all come expecting certain rates, rates which British Columbians have not got the money to pay. If they do not get these rates, it is not as in Australia where they are obliged to stay, they can just skip over the boundary line into the United States, and there even if they do not get what they exact, they get more than than they can in a more newly settled country, and we never see them again. They go to swell the numbers and volume of the United States, just as the Swift, the Quesnelle, the Thompson and Lillctt Rivers and other affluents go to swell the depth and volume of the Fraser, or the colonies of England add strength and depth and volume to the British Empire. If restriction of the Chinese took place, those who are here already would at once raise their price, and thus the very object of the anti-Chinese would be indirectly gained, and we should once more be without domestic help, once more thrown back twenty years upon our own resources. If one could venture on an estimate it would be at the rate of one Chinaman to each family, counting as in Europe each average family as consisting of four persons. Probably, if there were no great railway or other works to be considered, if twenty per cent. of the population were Chinese, we might get on fairly well. But every one of these would at once on his arrival find remunerative employment.

16. If the domestic servants coming from Europe or other parts of America were the only ones we could obtain, no persons of capital would (if they knew the truth) think of coming to British Columbia. They can get all the comforts and luxuries they may wish in other and cheaper places. They simply would not come-that is come to reside.

17. The answers I have already given to the previous questions sufficiently answer this one, except as to this :

18. I do not think at present any restriction on Chinese immigration is necessary or expedient. Time should be given to see whether those at present in the country who are engaged solely on railway works, will not leave the country altogether as soon as the works which drew them hither are concluded. Though possessed of all the qualities I have described, Chinamen do not make good settlers in the sense of raising up citizens of a free. and progressive country, which must in the course of years aspire to nationality however far remote the time. Miscegenation with the race is on any scale impossible. Patriotism is not known among them. In their legal contentions in court among their economies is a remarkable economy of truth. Six witnesses will get up and swear positively and to the point on one side, when six will get up and swear point blank the reverse, contradicting every allegation with a circumstance. This may be attributable to two things : our ignorance of the proper mode of binding their conscience by an oath, or our ignorance of their language which prevents our being able to sift out the truth as we could when white witnesess swear directly opposite to each other with respect to the same facts.

19. As to a combined effort of the people and the legislature to encourage white immigration, I do not believe, though most of all to be desired and encouraged, that such a combination, with the unlimited United States alongside, would succeed to any appreciable extent. The moment this combined effort "furnished an effectual supply of white labor " to the colour at any given time, I cannot possibly believe that it would stay supplied. The moment an immigrant " laborer " touches British Columbia he becomes in his own mind a boss (as it is termed) and will do as little manual labor as he can help. I exclude from this consideration all choppers, timber-men and the like. They never seem to lose the old time spirit for their work. The axe to them is a handicraft which no white man not born or educated up to the mark, can imitate. So with the regular miner and blaster. He is almost alone in his art; but I speak of the mere laborer. He can get rich land and a homestead for a mere nothing and become a farmer, and in a short time an employer of labor himself, looking out very likely for " the first Chinaman that comes along " whom he may " boss.'

20. To the question can white people find now remunerative employment and steady work and a provision for old age, I answer, yes, most certainly, plenty of work .. if they do not want it all at once. That is the trouble. The world, the Columbia world, is to him that can work and wait ; and I may add success requires here the same kind of qualities as ensure it anywhere else, sobriety, industry and honesty. Here there are no poor. To men with such qualities success is a mere question of time, especially here. British Columbia with its opportunities, unrivalled climate, regular succession of seasons, and unlimited resources, is a paradise to the poor man.

21. The railway and the opening of the railway lands has already had a marked effect upon the immigration of settlers to this province. I presume it is within the scope of these enquiries to add that survey should precede  or as quickly as possible overtake " settlement," and much more information as to what lands in particular are open to settlement should be given to intending settlers. There has been a great stride in that direction under the present government of the province, but it is a difficult thing to do, and certain preparation is required. But these things prepared, a great increase of immigration can well be provided for in British Columbia. There is a very erroneous impression about the agricultural capabilities of British Columbia, or I should say incapabilities. It cannot be called an agricultural country, compared with the level, arable plains of the interior of North America ; but there is good agricultural land enough to support millions of population, but first comers require assistance, British Columbia is so far away from most countries.

22. Instead of being retarded by Chinese immigration, I am fully persuaded that white immigration has been assisted by it. I know of retired officers and persons of settled incomes who would not have thought of coming here if they had not known that Chinese servants could he had here, though very indifferent compared with those one can obtain in China itself.

23. I do not think the effect produced by the Chinese on the morals of the whites has been a beneficial one, for the simple fact that they are heathens, and some quantity, I believe, of the whites are Christians. But where there are white people of allied habits to the immoral among the Chinese they are more likely to be injurious to their fellow whites than any Chinese, not only from intelligent depravity, but because they have from their language greater facility in communicating the moral virus and ill example to both old and young.

24. No. The proportion of immoral people among the Chinese here is not more than among white people similarly situated, where there are no immoral persons Chinese.

25. For open wickedness and parade of vice, for the public defence and spread of it in various alluring forms, for the numbers of youths inoculated by it, there is no comparison between the two; white vice and depravity are far ahead, more insidious, more alluring, more permanently injurious.

26. I have no personal knowledge whatever of the presence of leprosy among the Chinese. Now and then one hears a report to that effect, but in those cases reported upon by English doctors they have denied altogether its existence. They have, I believe, some singular and peculiar illnesses among themselves, such as produce wasting away and death, but these do not spread beyond themselves, although said to be almost invariably fatal among that people.

27. No. I have not spoken of the legal aspect of the Chinese question, restrict or exclude as that is not before me ; nor have I alluded to the treaties, as these subjects will naturally come in their order before the Commission, and are, after all, matter of diplomatic negotiation. But I do as a citizen and a very old, early pioneer of British Columbia, deprecate any active step whatever being taken, since my opinion has been asked-certainly for the present either to restrict or exclude Chinese immigration into British Columbia. It would not take so much as is generally supposed to drive them entirely out of the country, the effect of which would be simply disastrous. I am aware it is a matter even now in serious discussion among some of their leading men here, and these have been advised before taking any active step in that direction to await the result of this Commission. Of its existence and objects they are well aware, and expect its report with an interest they do not affect to conceal, for it will, for good or evil, affect, and that perhaps for a long period, enormous interests-social, financial, and political.

HENRY P. PELLEW CREASE.