CREASE, J.

WONG HOY WOON v. DUNCAN.

1894. Oct. 22.

Health regulations—Victoria Health By-Law, 1893, Secs. 32, 35—"Infected locality"—Proof of—"Exposed to infection."

Action of trespass against the Medical Health Officer of the City of Victoria for causing the plaintiff, one of a number of Chinamen, who landed at Victoria in a steamer last from Hong Kong in China, to be removed to the "Suspect Station" and there detained and subjected to cleansing process under colour of Sec. 35 of the Municipal Health By-Law, 1893, giving him, as Medical Health Officer, power "To stop, detain and examine every person or persons, freight, cargoes, railway and tramway cars coming from a place infected with a malignant or infectious disease," in order to prevent the introduction of such into Victoria.

The plaintiff had been passed by the Dominion Government Quarantine Officer as entitled to land at Victoria.

The white passengers from Hong Kong on the same steamer were not interfered with. The only evidence of Hong Kong being a place infected, etc., was that of a medical man resident in Victoria, who said "That in China small pox was endemic, because there inoculation was the universal practice. That there was danger of infection from white passengers, but not the same danger as from Chinamen." There was no direct evidence of the existence of small pox to a dangerous extent in Hong Kong at the time of the departure thence of the steamer, or that it was "a place infected," etc., or that the plaintiff had been "exposed to infection."

Held, That the facts were insufficient to justify the action of the Health Officer under the by-law.

Remarks on the duties of Health Officers.

Statement ACTION, claiming damages, for trespass. The facts fully appear from the head note and from the judgment.

H. Dallas Helmcken, for the plaintiff.

W. J. Taylor, for the defendant.

Judgment. CREASE, J.: This was a test action to try whether Chinamen have the same rights as other foreigners in landing here on their advent from China.

The occasion was the arrival of the Empress of China at the Outer Wharf, which is within the city limits of Victoria, on the 1st day of May, 1894, from China and Hongkong.

The action is one nominally rather than really, for damages against Dr. George Duncan, the Health Officer of the City of Victoria, on account of an alleged excess of duty in despatching en masse, without examination or enquiry, a number of Chinamen out to the suspect station at Ross Bay, there to be disinfected and scrubbed. No white passenger from the same port (Hongkong, the last port touched at) having been treated in a similar manner or apparently even questioned or detained. The Chinamen had already been examined on board the ship by the Dominion Quarantine Officers and Provincial officers and passed. Hoy Woon had also paid the $50 required by the Government as his entry fee into British Columbia, and was in possession of the proper receipt.

Dr. Duncan then appears on the scene, and finds these men already passed and landed clear of ship, Dominion Judgment customs and entrance.

Disregarding the white men, who had come at the same time from the same place and in the same ship and presumably subject to some of the same unsanitary influences, though not to the same extent as the Chinese, without any reason for special suspicion, without inspecting or attempting to inspect a single man, (that had already been done individually by the Dominion Quarantine Officers) he orders them into the custody of his constables to be taken out to the suspect station at Ross Bay, there to be washed and disinfected and scrubbed. They, with their goods and chattels, were bundled into a common truck like so many cattle.

The plaintiff and other Chinamen similarly situated obtained a writ of Habeas Corpus, upon which they were discharged from this custody.

Thereupon the present action was brought to test if and how far Chinamen are to be treated, when they land on our shores, differently from other foreigners.

The grounds alleged by the Health Officer for this arbitrary treatment is “that China is an infected locality,” and all persons coming from China and especially in this instance Hongkong, and especially also the natives of China, come from an infected locality, and that he has that authority under the Health By-Law, 1893, which was passed at the time of the small pox panic in Victoria, and, in all he did, was simply doing his duty.

Section 32 of that by-law (published in the B.C. Gazette of April 20, 1893) directs a strict examination to be made of any vessel and persons coming from “an infected locality,” before any person, luggage or freight or other thing is allowed to be landed from it.

Section 35 of the Health By-Law of 1893 gives the Medical Health Officer power to stop, detain and examine every person or persons, freight, cargoes, railway and tramway cars coming from a place “infected with a malignant Judgment. pestilential or infectious disease,” in order to prevent the introduction of the same into Victoria.

The case was tried before a jury upon the issue whether Hongkong, the last port the steamer left in China, was or not “an infected locality.” To prove that Hongkong was such, Dr. Davie was placed in the witness box as an expert. He considered “China the home of small pox,” and that it was “an infected place”; that, in China, small pox was “endemic,” i.e., always there; because there “inoculation” was the universal practice and was a constant source of danger; that in England and Europe and America, generally, vaccination, of late years, has been the rule. That was a preventative, and persons from such places were naturally not so much the object of suspicion or inspection to a health officer. He thought that too close a scrutiny could not be made of Chinese passengers. That small pox must have been in China on the 19th April last, the date when the Empress left Hongkong, as it was always there. He had no opinion to express as to the British possession of Hongkong; but it was a portion of China, where small pox was always, in a sense, "endemic." There was danger of infection from white passengers, but not the same danger as from Chinamen. It was his opinion that every one should be examined who comes from China or from any "infected port."

They should be examined on the ship. When asked the question, "Would you allow Chinamen to land and go into the city?" the Doctor replied, "The whole of the baggage should be disinfected, on the steamer if possible—if not, on the Outer Wharf. If I could not do anything else I would take them out to the suspect station. I would, if I could," he continued, "examine every passenger from there at the Outer Wharf. To do this it requires certain facilities which are wanting at the Outer Wharf." The duty of the Health Officer, as Dr. Davie understood it, was to interview the ship's officers and ascertain the sanitary state of the ship during the voyage; to inspect the whole of the men, inspect every individual, before he left the vessel. He was of Judgment opinion that the whole of those landed should be disinfected. The Chinese are chiefly dressed in woollen materials and these harbour infection for weeks and months. The period of incubation of small pox was from twelve to fifteen days. Cases of small pox were found in all large seaport towns, as for instance Liverpool; but these were not "endemic."

If the vessel left Honkong, it was quite possible some cases might develop during the passage. If they were not examined on the steamer there were no facilities for doing so on the wharf. There were several other diseases to be guarded against from China, e.g., cholera, leprosy, etc. (Here I observe that from first to last no mention was made of the black plague, which has carried off so many thousands of Chinese in Hongkong; and it appeared that during the passage from China to Victoria, which presumably lasted over the ordinary period of inoculation, no case of small pox appeared on board the Empress, and that she showed a clean bill of health.)

1894. Upon the question whether or not Hongkong, at the time the steamer left on April 19, 1894, was or not "an infected port," in the sense of Sec. 35, a place "infected by a malignant, pestilential or infectious disease," and they were so charged. The jury returned the following verdict:—

"According to the evidence we find that on 1st May, 1894, Hongkong was an infected port. We speak according to the evidence of Dr. Davie, that the port of Hongkong was and is an infected port." Now this assumes, as Dr. Davie assumed, that Hongkong, although a British port and subject to quarantine regulations, was (which includes the time of the steamer's departure) and is a cradle of small pox, and that every ship coming thence to Victoria, especially with Chinese on board, should be subject to the most searching examination, and the drastic treatment I have described. He does not include Japanese in the same category as Chinese. It was apparent throughout the Judgment. Doctor's evidence that he regarded the whole subject exclusively from a medical point of view, which is by no means identical with the legal construction which must prevail. The law, while it imposes on the Medical Health Officer the duty and arms him with abundant authority to deal imperatively almost in every case, at the same time insists that he shall discharge that duty with judgment and discretion, and not overrun the mark.

In this case, to say the least, he has not discharged his duty discreetly, but, on the contrary, has exceeded it. The whole gist of the by-law is to guard the case of persons "infected or exposed to infection," words which have a definite legal meaning, which applies to persons who have been brought into actual contact with or within the baleful influence of an infectious or contagious disease, as travelling in the same carriage or boat with anyone affected by the disease, and not securely isolated from accidental or other contact, or has recently come from a locality where from an accumulation of cases or other reason the disease has got into the air and become epidemic.

This construction applies to Sections 12, 13, 15, 16 and 29 of the by-law by the wording of which this meaning is distinctly brought out.

His duty was, if he considered the Empress of China came from "an infected locality," at once to go on board the suspected vessel and make his examination and inspection on board the vessel (as Section 32 says), "before any luggage, freight or other thing is landed or allowed to be landed."

It goes further and shews that the only person to be "dealt with in such manner as the Medical Health City Officer shall direct" is "any infected or exposed person from on board," under none of which categories do the plaintiff or other Chinamen, seized and carted off on this occasion, happen to come.

There was not an atom of actual proof before the jury of Judgment. the actual existence of a single case of small pox in Hong-kong in April or May or since, beyond a medical opinion that there might be.

Now a medical opinion, however valuable as an opinion, is not the legal proof of a fact. It would be a painful surprise to the people of Hongkong and its business men, living under British rule, to learn that, on the strength only of the opinion of a learned expert, their place is given out to the world as an infected place, which the by-law interprets to mean a place "infected with a malignant, pestilential or infectious disease," without any actual proof of the fact. In this case the plaintiff had been already duly and personally examined by Dr. McNaughton Jones, the able and experienced Health Officer, on his arrival, and passed. He had also been examined and passed by the Customs House officers as a man who had paid all his customs dues and had a certificate to shew the fact, which left him free to come and go as he pleased. It is not shewn that Dr.Duncan went on board, or that he conferred with the Dominion Health Officers as to whether any further examination of the plaintiff was necessary, or, in the public interest, advisable. It is shewn that he did not personally examine a single Chinaman or inquire if he was “an infected or exposed person.” In a matter affecting the public health, it is quite natural, and everyone would expect that officers who are armed with extensive sanitary powers, should confer together and assist one another in carrying out the law, and work well together for the public good and safety. Where that is not done the public are quick to note and comment on the fact.

The by-law is very properly arbitrary in its provisions and the powers it confers in cases of emergency, or even actual suspicion, on the Health Officer and his subordinates and these should be supported wherever practicable and the occasion warrants their employment.

But it should be understood that these exceptional powers are a great trust placed in the hands of the Health Officer to meet such cases as I have described, and at all times to be administered with firmness, judgment and discretion—not under any fear of infection unwarranted by the facts of the case which may enter into the mind of the Health Officer, or to be carried out by carting off en masse to the suspect station all who hail from China or Hongkong without examination or enquiry. The evidence shews there was nothing like emergency in the present case or anything to warrant the treatment they received.

On a review of the facts I am of opinion that the defendant exceeded his authority and caused the plaintiff great unnecessary loss and annoyance. I therefore give judgment for plaintiff against the defendant, but, as it is a test case, with only $5 damages and costs to be taxed.

Judgment for plaintiff.