On the first point, I would observe that it is now well settled law that British Columbia, as a part of the Dominion, possesses all, but possesses only, the powers which are strictly defined by the B. N. A. Act of 1867, which is, indeed, the constitution of Canada.

Neither she nor any other of the Provinces possess any other powers of legislation than are conferred by that Act. If British Columbia, or any other Province, in its legislation, goes beyond that Act and in excess of its provisions, that moment, and to the extent of such transgression, it ceases to be law. Therefore, in dealing with this question, our constitutional Act must be kept in view throughout, as the measure by which we must continually gauge the legality or illegality of the provisions of the local statute under consideration. 

The Act of Federation was passed in order to be an irrefragable, permanent standard by which to preserve and regulate all the relative rights of the Provinces, as among themselves and as regards the Dominion. 

The exclusive powers of that Act given to the Dominion over particular subjects are contained in the 91st section. The exclusive powers of the Province are particularized in section 92. It is natural that in the working out of such a constitution in a new and growing country, questions should be continually cropping up, and call upon the Courts to define gradually and with greater exactness, as time progresses and population expands, the relative powers given by the Act to the Dominion and Provinces respectively. Sub-section 2 of section 91 gives to the Dominion Parliament exclusively the regulation of “trade and commerce,” and by sub-section 25 that of “naturalization and aliens,” and everything relating to those subjects as affecting the whole Dominion is within the Dominion powers, and no local Legislature can make any statute interfering with either of those subjects. If it does, so far as such interference extends it is illegal and void, and when brought before the Court it is the duty of that tribunal so to adjudge it.

And the converse of this is true when applied to Dominion legislation as affecting the subjects exclusively given by the constitution to the Province. 

Now, applying this test to the statute before us, let us see whether and how far its provisions affect, as is alleged, aliens, or trade, or commerce. 

The aliens in this case being Chinese, the first enquiry must be, what is the object of the Act? On applying to the preamble, we find that it looks like a bill of indictment as against a race not suited to live among a civilized nation, and certainly does not prepare one for legislation which would encourage or tolerate their settlement in the country. Indeed, the first lines of the preamble sound an alarm at the multitude of people coming in, who are of the repulsive habits described in the last part of the preamble, and prepares one for measures which should have a tendency to abate that alarm by deterrent influences and enactments which should have the effect of materially lessening the number of such undesirable visitors. The provisions of the Act I have given somewhat in extenso bear out that view, and the concurrent and previous local legislation bear out the same impression, for on the same day as this Act was passed, another Act was passed, the very object of which was plainly stated to be "to prevent the immigration" of Chinese." 

That Act was disallowed. It interfered with aliens as well as trade and commerce, which cannot subsist among nations without personal intercourse, which such an Act (as far as China was concerned) would have a tendency to prohibit. 

Another statute (of 1878), "An Act to provide for the better collection of taxes from Chinese," which contained several of the stringent provisions which I have described in this Act, such as a special tax specially recoverable by summary and unusual remedies from the Chinese alone, in British Columbia, and enforced by fine and imprisonment and other penal clauses, came before this Court, and in a most conscientious and exhaustive judgment of Mr. Justice Gray, of 23rd September, 1878, in the case of Tai Sing v. Maguire, was declared unconstitutional and ultra vires the Local Legislature, as interfering with aliens and trade and commerce—matters reserved exclusively under the 81st section of the B. N. A. Act to the Dominion. That decision was never appealed from, and was at once acted on by the government as conclusive. 

The position and legislative powers of British Columbia have been in no respect altered in its relations to the legislative powers of the Dominion on the same subjects since that time, though Russell v. The Queen (7 App. Cas. 829) and Hodge v. The Queen (9 App. Cas. 117) have more fully defined the extent of the powers of the Provincial Legislatures than has hitherto been done; and in the latter case especially. That decision, however, was not before Mr. Gray when he rendered the judgment in Tai Sing v. Maguire. Until reversed or varied, the decision in the Hodge case is law here, and binding on this Court. 

Their lordships say (page 132), with reference to the objection of the appellants there (delegatus non potest delegare):—
"It appears to their lordships, however, that the objection thus raised by the appellants is founded on an entire misconception of the true character and position of the Provincial Legislatures. They are in no sense delegates of or acting under any mandate from the Imperial Parliament. When the British North America Act enacted that there should be a Legislature for Ontario" (for this case we may for "Ontario" read "British Columbia"), "and that its Legislative Assembly should have exclusive authority to make laws for the Province and for provincial purposes in relation to the matters enumerated in section 92, it conferred powers not in any sense to be exercised by delegation from or as agents of the Imperial Parliament, but authority as plenary and as ample within the limits prescribed by section 92 as the Imperial Parliament in the plenitude of its power possessed and could bestow. Within these limits of subjects and area the Local Legislature is supreme." 

[So far this decision confirms the words of Lord Selborne in R. v. Burah; what follows goes beyond it.] "And has the same authority as the Imperial Parliament or the Parliament of the Dominion would have had under like circumstances to confide to a municipal institution or body of its own creation authority to make by-laws or resolutions as to subjects specified in the enactment, and with the object of carrying the enactment into operation and effect." 

That decision, although in some respects an obiter dictum, as regards this case, makes it clear that within the limits of subjects and the area prescribed by the B. N. A. Act, by section 92, the Legislature of British Columbia is supreme. The basis, then, of our enquiry must be: Is this Chinese Regulation Act of 1884—rather the parts of it objected to—within the limit of subjects and area of section 92, or does it exceed those limits in which it is supreme, and interfere with aliens, trade and commerce in such a manner as to encroach on section 91 or any of its sub-sections? If so, so far as it does so, it is unconstitutional and ultra vires, and therefore void. Now it does not follow because a local Act touches on these three subjects it therefore interferes with them so as to render it unconstitutional. 

Aliens may be taxed, may be subjected to the same rules and municipal and other by-laws as other inhabitants of British Columbia, and such discrimination in so doing as are allowed in local legislatures between and among different persons and occupations among the whites are quite as applicable to them. These are the only discriminations which the law allows, and these are the permissible discriminations spoken of by Cooley in the portions cited before the Court. During the argument the case of *Lin Sing v. Washburn*, 20 California Reports, 534, was quoted as bearing on this case. There, an Act of the California Legislature passed an Act imposing a capitation tax “on ‘each person, male and female, of the Mongolian race of the age of 18 years and upwards residing in the State,’ accompanying a license almost a *fac simile* of our own, and enforced in much the same way as in the case before us, that, after long and elaborate argument in which the Attorney-General appeared for the State, was determined to be unconstitutional, as it was an interference with trade and commerce, which could be regulated alone by the general government. It was in vain advanced that at least the State had concurrent jurisdiction in matters of taxation relative to its own internal affairs, of which this was one (the same proposition as was advanced by the Attorney-General in this case) in which it had a supreme and autonomous right to legislate. And the grounds of this decision were that the federal constitution had vested in the general government the power to regulate commerce in all its branches (as with us in the Dominion); and this power extends to every species of commercial intercourse, and may be exercised upon persons as well as property (Mr. Justice Field, whose arguments have been reproduced by the Attorney-General before me in this case, dissenting). 

That commerce cannot be carried on without the agency of persons, and the tax, the effect of which is to diminish personal intercourse, is a tax on commerce. If the power to impose such a tax is acknowledged, it being a sovereign power, no limitation can be affixed to its exercise, and it may be so used as not only to diminish but destroy commerce. 

The power asserted in the Act in question (the California Act) is the right of the State to prescribe the terms upon which the Chinese shall be permitted to reside in it, and be so used as to cut off all intercourse between them and the people of the State, and defeat the commercial policy of the nation. 

That the Act could not be maintained as a police regulation; that a branch of the police power had been surrendered to the Federal Government as a part of the power to regulate commerce, and its exercise by a State was incompatible with the authority of the Government. 

That the Chinese might be taxed as other residents, but could not be set apart as special objects of the taxation, and be compelled to contribute to the revenue of the State in the character of foreigners. 

The reports of the higher California courts are of great authority for us on all Chinese questions, for there have been efforts for years past to restrict Chinese immigration in California, and the matter has been constantly before the superior courts there, and the judges there (if we may take the reports as correct) are more than ordinarily skilled in laying down the law correctly in constitutional points of that nature. Indeed, there is no other country which has such experience generally in constitutional law as applicable to a federation of states. 

Of course, in all the observations I make I recognize the now well-known distinction between the relations of a State of the Union to the Federal Government, and our relation as a Province to the Dominion. Still both Federal Governments have reserved to themselves the regulation of trade and commerce and naturalization and aliens; so the analogy is so close as to become almost a direct authority. 

In the *Lin Sin* judgment, p. 579, the learned judge says of the power of taxing foreigners, as in the present *qua* foreigners: “If the power exist it may be exercised upon all foreigners residing in the State, and may be so exercised as to bar the door of foreign commerce as effectually as the Government could do by issuing its man-“date and closing its ports." 

And again "to determine whether there is a conflict or not, i.e., of jurisdictions, the power must be considered with reference to its consequences, for its effect when carried out is the only criterion by which a judgment can be formed."

In another place he says:—"It would be an empty sound to say that the several States cannot pass any law to prevent foreigners from coming here if they may pass laws which will compel such foreigners to depart as soon as they arrive." 

And again, "A tax imposed by the law on these persons for the mere right to reside here, is an appropriate and effective means to discourage the immigration of the Chinese into the State."

During the argument on the case before me, the Attorney-General claims that this was direct taxation, and a direct tax within the Province, to raise revenue for Provincial purposes, and, therefore *intra vires*; but the question is not one of name but of fact. Does it interfere with trade or commerce? Can it be legally imposed on foreigners as foreigners, for even a legal tax in other respects becomes illegal when it goes beyond its proper limits, and interferes with powers exclusively given to the Dominion for the benefit of all? 

In another California case, *In re Tiburcio Parrott*, it is laid down that if the apparent object of a statute is under a pretense of the exercise of constitutional powers to drive Chinese away, the end sought to be obtained being unlawful, the statute is void. 

In *Russell v. Reg.* it is decided that the true nature and character of legislation must be determined in order to ascertain its legality. 

In *Citizens Insurance Co. v. Parsons*, we have to look at the legislation for the same purpose. 

If the legislation here be to drive people from the country, have the local legislature the power? Legislation as to aliens is reserved to the Dominion. And as to trade and commerce, if the Chinese be driven out an annual loss to the revenue, it appears by the tables in the Chinese Commission Report, of $110,000 will take place; and more than $1,500,000 of property and business be lost to us, besides an injury to trade to an incalculable extent. The amount of business transacted by Chinamen in British Columbia, as revealed by the tables in that Chinese Report, is something which a casual observer would have no idea of. 

The treaties between Great Britain and China, which bind us, have been quoted. The treaty of 25th August, 1842, *Hertslet*, Vol. 6, ratified 26th June, 1843, p. 221, and Lord Elgin's treaty of October, 1860, authenticated copies of which were produced in Court, secure to Chinese coming into British dominions the same "full security for persons and property as subjects of Her Majesty." 

*Vattell*, cap. 8, referring to our obligations to foreigners, observes:— "As soon as the lord of the territory admits strangers into it he engages "to protect them as his own subjects, and to afford them perfect security as far as depends on him."

*Reg. v. Severn* and *Reg. v. Russell* are important authorities in guiding our enquiry as to the nature and effect of local legislation in determining whether and how far the Act under review exceeds the limits within which the local legislature is supreme. And as to the equality of taxation, besides *Cooley*, who has been quoted freely on both sides, in *Kent's Commentaries* (8th Ed.), 2nd Vol., 388, it is insisted—"That every person is entitled to be protected in the enjoyment of his property, not only from invasions of it by individuals, but from all unequal and undue assessments on the part of the Government. It is not sufficient that no tax or imposition can be imposed upon the citizens, but by their representatives in the legislature the citizens are entitled to require that the legislature itself shall cause all public taxation to be fair and equal in proportion to the value of 'property" (and that is what *Cooley* means by apportionment of taxation), "so that no class of individuals, and no species of property shall be unduly assessed." The treaties I have quoted between Great Britain and China, binding on the Dominion and on us in British Columbia, secure to the Chinese, just as the treaties between Great Britain and other foreign countries secure to other foreigners, the same rights in regard to the equality of taxation which I have described as being enjoyed by citizens of this country. 

These treaties have the force of international law, and are continued most strongly against the party for whose benefit they are introduced. 

In the case of the Chinese treaties, they were forced at the point of the bayonet on China, to obtain a right for us to enter China, and in return for a similar permission to us, full permission was given for the Chinese to trade and reside in British dominions everywhere. 

In the treaties of 1858 and 1860, made at the solicitation of Great Britain, the Emperor of China was induced to give permission to his subjects to go and trade and reside "in British Colonies," and to enter into "engagements with British subjects for that purpose." 

These obligations are binding here and in other parts of the Dominion under section 132 of the British North America Act, and no Province, or the Dominion itself, can lawfully pass laws interfering with that right without a previous revision of the treaties by the high contracting parties to them for that purpose. Treaties with foreign nations are above all ordinary municipal law, for obvious international reasons, for without such a provision there can be no permanent security, which is the life of all commercial intercourse. The same provisions that apply to Chinese may be made to apply also to Americans, Frenchmen, Germans, or any other foreigners. Such treaties are the especial care of the Dominion, and where local legislation clashes with that especial province of the Dominion, the legislation of the Province must give way, as laid down in Leprohon v. the City of Ottawa, 40 Q.B., Ont., 478; Reg. v. Chandler, Hannay's New Brunswick Reports, 548; Dow v. Black, L.R. 6 P.C. 272; L'Union St. Jacques v. Belisle, L.R. 6 P.C. 31, and numerous other Canadian authorities, besides the British North America Act itself. Now applying the principles and tests I have described to the Act before us, what do we find? The Act is found associated with another Act now disallowed, the express object of which is to prevent the Chinese altogether from coming to this country, and the principle "noscitur a sociis" is kept up by the preamble of the present Act, which describes the Chinese in terms which, I venture to think, have never before in any other country found a place in an Act of Parliament. 

In the definition of the persons affected by the Act no distinction is made of ambassadors, merchants, consuls, artists, professors or travellers, or sex, whether under disability or not, or at such a distance from a collector as to make it difficult or impossible to obtain a license. Every person of Chinese origin, whether naturalized in Hong Kong or America, or any other State with which we are at amity, so long as they are of Chinese origin, 14 years of age—every one without distinction—must take out a license. For the purpose of argument I have treated the license fee as a tax; but it is in fact a license—a license to remain in British Columbia unmolested for a year. When the legislature wanted to create a tax, they knew what words to use for the purpose, for in the sister Act passed on the same day, which was disallowed, they called the impost there enacted a "tax," not a license. However difficult or impossible for any Chinese to find a district collector, if such Chinese is "found without a license he is liable to a fine of $40." At every turn he is confronted with an exceptional duty, and an exceptional penalty, and the loss of his goods and chattels, and of personal liberty. 

It is impossible but that such an imposition so enforced, in addition to all the general taxes to which he is subject, should make this country too hot for him to live in; and just in proportion as he is so persecuted out of the country, in that degree does this enactment interfere with trade and commerce and that control over aliens exclusively given to the Dominion. And not only is he thus attacked, but unheard of provisions are introduced. Every employé of Chinese labour, whether English, American, or what not, is made liable to severe and incessant liability of a penal kind, for what? Some act, a default of his own? No; an act or default of a stranger, a man whose language he knows not, and for every infraction of the Act by the Chinese under his employ. The palpable object of such a provision, or set of provisions, is to render the employment of Chinese so distasteful and annoying to the employer that he must cease to employ them. Now, to pass a law providing that employment shall not be given to a special class of men, except it be productive of so much danger, annoyance, and loss to the employer, is just another way of saying that no intercourse shall be had with that class. With penalties and prosecutions always before you, far in excess of any advantage to be derived from that intercourse or trade, what is that but equivalent to saying that such intercourse or trade or labour must cease altogether. What is that but interfering with aliens, trade, and commerce? 

If a man employ a Chinaman who should happen to be delinquent in his tax, and he happens to occupy a cottage or room of his employer, with his master's goods in it, under section 10 they are liable to seizure and sale. In every prosecution under the Act the legal presumption of innocence until conviction is reversed; in every case the onus probandi, though in a Statute highly penal, is shifted from the informant on to the shoulders of the accused, and he a foreigner not knowing one word of the law, or even the language of the accuser. In other words, every Chinese is guilty until proved innocent—a provision which fills one conversant with subjects with alarm; for if such a law can be tolerated as against Chinese, the precedent is set, and in time of any popular outcry can easily be acted on for putting any other foreigners or even special classes among ourselves, as coloured people, or French, Italians, Americans, or Germans, under equally the same law. That certainly is interfering with aliens. 

The proposition that it is a Provincial tax for revenue purposes, supposing it to be so intended under the provisions of the Act, is so manifestly calculated to defeat that object, by diminishing the numbers of the members of the persons to be affected by it, that it is difficult to regard it in that light, or in any other light than an indirect mode of getting rid of persons whom it affects out of the country. The whole Act teems with special provisions which affect not only Chinese, but their employers, with obligations and liabilities as to the conduct of the Chinese in their employ, that no reasonable man would encounter, and run the risk of the penal consequences which the Act hangs over him. 

For instance, by section 19 any pecuniary penalty imposed may be summarily recovered (and applies to employers), and in default of immediate payment the same may be recovered by distress of the goods and chattels of the offender, and in default of sufficient distress by a liability to imprisonment for three calendar months, and the employers would necessarily be white men. 

In fact, the Act so bristles with these arbitrary, exceptional and penal consequences, that it is invidious to single out particular ones for comment. It is enough to add that "any person," no matter whether white or Chinese, imprisoned in respect of any infraction of the provisions of the Act, may be at the will of the executive, subjected even to hard labour. 

The Act is so full of provisions that interfere directly with aliens, with trade, and with commerce, that I have no hesitation in pronouncing all such provisions, and among them those under which the appellant in this case has been convicted, to be ultra vires the local legislature, and consequently illegal and void. 

So far, I have dealt with the Act on its own merits; but if we consider it in juxtaposition to the Dominion Act recently passed restricting the Chinese throughout all Canada, its illegality becomes transparent; for in passing that Act against the Chinese the Dominion has spoken by the highest authority which it possesses—its own Parliament. By the Constitutional Act the subject of aliens, we have seen, is specially reserved to the Dominion, and it is now an axiom, in the interpretation of that Act, that when that authority deals with a subject expressly included in its jurisdiction by the 91st section, it has possession of that subject exclusively, and the Province has to give way. It is a great assumption of power on the part of a Province to pass laws, the effect of which must be practically to expel a particular class of aliens from that Province, to say in effect that it will by its legislation impede or prevent that class from being employed in another Province—say the North-west Territory or Manitoba—where railway works may be languishing for want of that very class of labourers, British Columbia being the only sea-board of Canada on the Pacific through which (in face of the restrictive laws of the United States) that class of labourers can enter and pass through; that is, in fact, legislating on all inter-provincial immigration; in other words, such legislation is ultra vires, and so I pronounce it; and adjudge accordingly, and quash the conviction, with costs. 

Judgment. CREASE, J.: This was a test action to try whether Chinamen have the same rights as other foreigners in landing here on their advent from China.

The occasion was the arrival of the Empress of China at the Outer Wharf, which is within the city limits of Victoria, on the 1st day of May, 1894, from China and Hongkong.

The action is one nominally rather than really, for damages against Dr. George Duncan, the Health Officer of the City of Victoria, on account of an alleged excess of duty in despatching en masse, without examination or enquiry, a number of Chinamen out to the suspect station at Ross Bay, there to be disinfected and scrubbed. No white passenger from the same port (Hongkong, the last port touched at) having been treated in a similar manner or apparently even questioned or detained. The Chinamen had already been examined on board the ship by the Dominion Quarantine Officers and Provincial officers and passed. Hoy Woon had also paid the $50 required by the Government as his entry fee into British Columbia, and was in possession of the proper receipt.

Dr. Duncan then appears on the scene, and finds these men already passed and landed clear of ship, Dominion Judgment customs and entrance.

Disregarding the white men, who had come at the same time from the same place and in the same ship and presumably subject to some of the same unsanitary influences, though not to the same extent as the Chinese, without any reason for special suspicion, without inspecting or attempting to inspect a single man, (that had already been done individually by the Dominion Quarantine Officers) he orders them into the custody of his constables to be taken out to the suspect station at Ross Bay, there to be washed and disinfected and scrubbed. They, with their goods and chattels, were bundled into a common truck like so many cattle.

The plaintiff and other Chinamen similarly situated obtained a writ of Habeas Corpus, upon which they were discharged from this custody.

Thereupon the present action was brought to test if and how far Chinamen are to be treated, when they land on our shores, differently from other foreigners.

The grounds alleged by the Health Officer for this arbitrary treatment is “that China is an infected locality,” and all persons coming from China and especially in this instance Hongkong, and especially also the natives of China, come from an infected locality, and that he has that authority under the Health By-Law, 1893, which was passed at the time of the small pox panic in Victoria, and, in all he did, was simply doing his duty.

Section 32 of that by-law (published in the B.C. Gazette of April 20, 1893) directs a strict examination to be made of any vessel and persons coming from “an infected locality,” before any person, luggage or freight or other thing is allowed to be landed from it.

Section 35 of the Health By-Law of 1893 gives the Medical Health Officer power to stop, detain and examine every person or persons, freight, cargoes, railway and tramway cars coming from a place “infected with a malignant Judgment. pestilential or infectious disease,” in order to prevent the introduction of the same into Victoria.

The case was tried before a jury upon the issue whether Hongkong, the last port the steamer left in China, was or not “an infected locality.” To prove that Hongkong was such, Dr. Davie was placed in the witness box as an expert. He considered “China the home of small pox,” and that it was “an infected place”; that, in China, small pox was “endemic,” i.e., always there; because there “inoculation” was the universal practice and was a constant source of danger; that in England and Europe and America, generally, vaccination, of late years, has been the rule. That was a preventative, and persons from such places were naturally not so much the object of suspicion or inspection to a health officer. He thought that too close a scrutiny could not be made of Chinese passengers. That small pox must have been in China on the 19th April last, the date when the Empress left Hongkong, as it was always there. He had no opinion to express as to the British possession of Hongkong; but it was a portion of China, where small pox was always, in a sense, "endemic." There was danger of infection from white passengers, but not the same danger as from Chinamen. It was his opinion that every one should be examined who comes from China or from any "infected port."

They should be examined on the ship. When asked the question, "Would you allow Chinamen to land and go into the city?" the Doctor replied, "The whole of the baggage should be disinfected, on the steamer if possible—if not, on the Outer Wharf. If I could not do anything else I would take them out to the suspect station. I would, if I could," he continued, "examine every passenger from there at the Outer Wharf. To do this it requires certain facilities which are wanting at the Outer Wharf." The duty of the Health Officer, as Dr. Davie understood it, was to interview the ship's officers and ascertain the sanitary state of the ship during the voyage; to inspect the whole of the men, inspect every individual, before he left the vessel. He was of Judgment opinion that the whole of those landed should be disinfected. The Chinese are chiefly dressed in woollen materials and these harbour infection for weeks and months. The period of incubation of small pox was from twelve to fifteen days. Cases of small pox were found in all large seaport towns, as for instance Liverpool; but these were not "endemic."

If the vessel left Honkong, it was quite possible some cases might develop during the passage. If they were not examined on the steamer there were no facilities for doing so on the wharf. There were several other diseases to be guarded against from China, e.g., cholera, leprosy, etc. (Here I observe that from first to last no mention was made of the black plague, which has carried off so many thousands of Chinese in Hongkong; and it appeared that during the passage from China to Victoria, which presumably lasted over the ordinary period of inoculation, no case of small pox appeared on board the Empress, and that she showed a clean bill of health.)

1894. Upon the question whether or not Hongkong, at the time the steamer left on April 19, 1894, was or not "an infected port," in the sense of Sec. 35, a place "infected by a malignant, pestilential or infectious disease," and they were so charged. The jury returned the following verdict:—

"According to the evidence we find that on 1st May, 1894, Hongkong was an infected port. We speak according to the evidence of Dr. Davie, that the port of Hongkong was and is an infected port." Now this assumes, as Dr. Davie assumed, that Hongkong, although a British port and subject to quarantine regulations, was (which includes the time of the steamer's departure) and is a cradle of small pox, and that every ship coming thence to Victoria, especially with Chinese on board, should be subject to the most searching examination, and the drastic treatment I have described. He does not include Japanese in the same category as Chinese. It was apparent throughout the Judgment. Doctor's evidence that he regarded the whole subject exclusively from a medical point of view, which is by no means identical with the legal construction which must prevail. The law, while it imposes on the Medical Health Officer the duty and arms him with abundant authority to deal imperatively almost in every case, at the same time insists that he shall discharge that duty with judgment and discretion, and not overrun the mark.

In this case, to say the least, he has not discharged his duty discreetly, but, on the contrary, has exceeded it. The whole gist of the by-law is to guard the case of persons "infected or exposed to infection," words which have a definite legal meaning, which applies to persons who have been brought into actual contact with or within the baleful influence of an infectious or contagious disease, as travelling in the same carriage or boat with anyone affected by the disease, and not securely isolated from accidental or other contact, or has recently come from a locality where from an accumulation of cases or other reason the disease has got into the air and become epidemic.

This construction applies to Sections 12, 13, 15, 16 and 29 of the by-law by the wording of which this meaning is distinctly brought out.

His duty was, if he considered the Empress of China came from "an infected locality," at once to go on board the suspected vessel and make his examination and inspection on board the vessel (as Section 32 says), "before any luggage, freight or other thing is landed or allowed to be landed."

It goes further and shews that the only person to be "dealt with in such manner as the Medical Health City Officer shall direct" is "any infected or exposed person from on board," under none of which categories do the plaintiff or other Chinamen, seized and carted off on this occasion, happen to come.

There was not an atom of actual proof before the jury of Judgment. the actual existence of a single case of small pox in Hong-kong in April or May or since, beyond a medical opinion that there might be.

Now a medical opinion, however valuable as an opinion, is not the legal proof of a fact. It would be a painful surprise to the people of Hongkong and its business men, living under British rule, to learn that, on the strength only of the opinion of a learned expert, their place is given out to the world as an infected place, which the by-law interprets to mean a place "infected with a malignant, pestilential or infectious disease," without any actual proof of the fact. In this case the plaintiff had been already duly and personally examined by Dr. McNaughton Jones, the able and experienced Health Officer, on his arrival, and passed. He had also been examined and passed by the Customs House officers as a man who had paid all his customs dues and had a certificate to shew the fact, which left him free to come and go as he pleased. It is not shewn that Dr.Duncan went on board, or that he conferred with the Dominion Health Officers as to whether any further examination of the plaintiff was necessary, or, in the public interest, advisable. It is shewn that he did not personally examine a single Chinaman or inquire if he was “an infected or exposed person.” In a matter affecting the public health, it is quite natural, and everyone would expect that officers who are armed with extensive sanitary powers, should confer together and assist one another in carrying out the law, and work well together for the public good and safety. Where that is not done the public are quick to note and comment on the fact.

The by-law is very properly arbitrary in its provisions and the powers it confers in cases of emergency, or even actual suspicion, on the Health Officer and his subordinates and these should be supported wherever practicable and the occasion warrants their employment.

But it should be understood that these exceptional powers are a great trust placed in the hands of the Health Officer to meet such cases as I have described, and at all times to be administered with firmness, judgment and discretion—not under any fear of infection unwarranted by the facts of the case which may enter into the mind of the Health Officer, or to be carried out by carting off en masse to the suspect station all who hail from China or Hongkong without examination or enquiry. The evidence shews there was nothing like emergency in the present case or anything to warrant the treatment they received.

On a review of the facts I am of opinion that the defendant exceeded his authority and caused the plaintiff great unnecessary loss and annoyance. I therefore give judgment for plaintiff against the defendant, but, as it is a test case, with only $5 damages and costs to be taxed.

Judgment for plaintiff.
