RESUMÉ.

1. That Chinese labor is a most efficient aid in the development of a. country, and a great means to wealth. As a railway navvy the Chinaman has no superior, and his presence in California has given the State a start many years ahead and added incalculably to its material prosperity ; while in British Columbia Chinese labor has been attended by great advantages to the Province and the same excellent effects would, most likely, for many years from now follow its utilization.

2. That, however, the Chinese being a non-assimilable race, clearly marked off from white people by color and national and race characteristics, their presence in a country is not unattended with disadvantages, foremost among these being the irritation, discontent and resentment they inspire in white laborers. Without discussing the reasonableness or otherwise of this antipathy, there it is ; and, as an important element in. the problem of the development and government of the country, it is a. fact for the State to consider in all its practical bearings.

3. That being able to subsist on much less than white men, they lower wages ; and the sentiment of race superiority on the part of the whites. leads these to feel humiliation at working by the side of Chinamen, the tendency being, as some contend, to bring labor into contempt.

4. That the Chinese do largely engross domestic service, in which they prove themselves faithful and efficient ; that the evidence was strong, if not conclusive, that white girls cannot be induced to go into the country, removed from their church and accustomed companionship, to work as domestics, and that a sufficient supply can not be had even for cities and towns ; that the fact that the Chinese thus compete with female servants. is, nevertheless, one well worthy the attention of Government.

5. That the tendency is for certain industries to pass completely into the hands of the Chinese.

6. That the statements as to their bad moral effect on the community are grossly exaggerated. In fact their morality is not lower than that of the same classes of other nationalities.

7. That their custom of living in quarters of their own-"Chinatowns" -is attended with evils, such as the depreciation of property, and owing to their habits of lodging in crowded quarters and accumulating filth is. offensive if not likely to breed disease. But these evils might be dealt with by police supervision.

8. That they do not burden public charities nor unduly swell the calendar of crime.

9. On the point whether the Chinese have a quasi-government amongst themselves, the evidence is such as to leave the matter in doubt. It is probable, however, that what really exist are guilds and courts of arbitration. The Six Companies, about which so much is said, not only arose naturally in the early days, but such guilds are Chinese institutions found everywhere, and there can be no doubt that in China and Singapore such associations enable compradors to behave with great independence, not to say tyranny and peculation. Much of what has been said and written on this subject shows complete ignorance of Chinese character and habits. Chinamen invariably combine.

10. It would be very hard to say to which side educated public opinion in California leans on this subject of Chinese immigration. In British Columbia those who are not dependent in one way or another on the support of the laboring classes are, as a rule, unfavorable to anti-Chinese legislation. Everywhere the railway men and the mine owners, the manufacturers and the housekeepers, the merchants an'l shopkeepers are against absolute exclusion, but the very best friends of the Chinamen think their immigration should be regulated. In California an overwhelming vote was polled against them.

11. Assuming, as is done above, that the Chinese cannot be assimilated, it is well to pause before a choice of evils. If, for instance, they supply a want that cannot otherwise be supplied, labor where else great works would have to stop, help where else the weak and the old would in the discharge of their household duties sink beneath the burden of infirmity or age, then their presence so far from being an evil is a good. When other labor can be had, and other help is at hand, then would have been the time to think of dispensing wholly with the Chinese, and Congress undoubtedly went beyond the demands of some of the leaders in the anti-Chinese movement.

12. No one doubts that they have done a good day's work for the people of California. But if it is unfair on the one hand to complain after they have given value that they take the money out of the country, it would be equally illogical on the part of the Chinese, who professedly have never come to stay, to complain if the door is shut against new-comers. Those who have vested interests there are suffered to remain, and the wageearners who never intended to stop could claim no reversion for others.

13. That they show no desire to understand or meddle with politics, and take no or little interest in any country where they go to labor, and always intend to return to China; nor, save for the density of population in China, would there be reason to apprehend large permanent settlements of Chinese. But as that density must increase, necessity would in time lead to such settlements. This remark, however, should be made : although the climate of Northern China is cold, the immigrants who seek the western shores of this continent come and are sure to continue to come from provinces whose climate is either semi-tropical or borders on that ; nor need there be any fear of a Chinese inundation in Canada.

14. That no one, save a few persons of very ill-considered opinions, desires to exclude Chinese merchants, or any class of Chinese save two. All would exclude prostitutes and criminals. While numbers would welcome laborers on the ground of their usefulness, numbers would exclude them because they compete, or are supposed to compete, to the disadvantage of white laborers. It is universally admitted that the merchants are honorable and capable men, of high credit and of great commercial advantage to the community; and these would not only be welcomed but would be desirable.

15. That now (if here a speculative thought may enter) British Columbia has a great opportunity, by welcoming Chinamen, and thus securing not only cheaper labor than California, but conciliating the good will and fixing the attention of a people, from the vast resources and inchoate wealth of whose country the veil is only just being drawn aside, whose commerce is of great value, and on the completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway may be of incalculable value. British Columbia has many features in common with California. It is a country which needs local railways ; it is a mining country ; it is a fruitgrowing country. It possesses, besides, enormous resources in timber lands and fisheries. If, therefore, British Columbia were to decide that the undoubted evils of Chinese immigration were largely counterbalanced by other considerations, what would happen is this : she would by vigorous legislation secure that her mines would be worked on a large scale, the riches of the country being thus enormously increased and her treasury swelled ; she would engross nearly all the coal and timber trade and much of the fruit trade of the Pacific Coast, while her fish would largely supply the markets of the eastern and central parts of the continent, and even with Europe no insignificant commerce would be within her grasp ; her wealth positively and above all relatively to California would develop at a ratio not short of mathematical; she would literally shoot ahead as one of the great seats of commerce and industrial activity ; and, her position achieved, she could then apply herself to the political and social problem, and by the aid of the Dominion Parliament deal with that.

16. That the Chinese are most successful as market-gardeners. Perhaps in this character they are hardly equalled in the skill with which they bring the maximum of produce out of the ground, and though not clever in the management of horses, in the field they play a useful, if a subordinate part.

17. That if Chinamen dispensed with those conditions of Asiatic civilization which they have hitherto insisted on taking with them everywhere ; if their children were found more often than at present dressed in western garb and their books under their arm going to an English school, hostility to them would gradually disappear. In fact, a few bright Chinese school boys would do more for assimilation than all the measures of statesmen. There is little difference in appearance between a Chinaman who wears western clothes and makes a western toilet and the Portuguese or the Italian, who would be welcomed on whatever shores immigration was needed. The Japanese wins sympathy everywhere, and in some cases is actively encouraged because he adapts himself to the customs of the country in which he settles.

18. That the Chinaman in Victoria, B.C., under British rule, and in Portland under that of the United States, where the hostility to him is not so great as in the capital of California, is of a superior type to the Chinaman of San Francisco, and the inference is that he improves according as he is treated well.

19. That restrictive legislation in the United States has of necessity stimulated white immigration, but there is as yet no evidence that the supply would meet the needs of the country if the Chinese were to disappear.

20. That assuming Chinese immigrants of the laboring class will persist in retaining their present characteristics of Asiatic life, where these are strikingly peculiar and distinct from western, and that the influx will continue to increase, this immigration should be dealt with by Parliament ; but no legislation should be such as would give a shock to great interests and enterprises established before any probability that Parliament would interfere with that immigration arose. Questions of vested rights might come up, and these ought to be carefully considered before action is taken.

21. That, therefore, if restrictive legislation were considered opportune it should aim at gradually-achieved results, and the history of the question, as well as the evidence, shows that by legislation regulating, not excluding Chinese laborers, every purpose can be effected which those who apprehend evils from Chinese immigration could, and actually do desire.

22. That whenever legislation on this subject takes place its provisions should be of such a character as to avoid the difficulties, litigation and expense which have followed (as will be seen on pages cvi-cix, Enquiry at San Francisco,) the administration in the United States of the Restriction Acts of 1882 and 1884.
