On the 4th of July, 1884, the following Commission was issued :- CANADA. LANSDOWNE.

VICTORIA, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith, etc., etc., etc.

To all to whom these presents shall come or whom the same may in any wise concern.

GREETING :Whereas, during the last session of the Parliament of Canada, a motion was made as follows : "That in the opinion of this House it is expedient to enact a law prohibiting the Incoming of Chinese to that portion of Canada known as British Columbia," which motion was withdrawn on a promise made by the Right Honorable the Premier on behalf of the Government that a Commission should be issued to enquire into and report upon the whole subject of Chinese Immigration;

AND WHEREAS We deem it expedient in the interest of, and as connected with, the good government of Canada to cause such enquiry to be made ;

NOW, KNOW YE that We, by and with the advice of our Privy Council for Canada, do by these presents nominate, constitute and appoint the Honorable Joseph Adolphe Chapleau, Doctor of Laws, one of our counsel learned in the law, and our Secretary of State of Canada ; and the Honorable John Hamilton Gray, Doctor of Civil Law, a Judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia, Commissioners to make enquiry into and concerning all the facts and matters connected with the whole subject of Chinese Immigration, its trade relations, as well as the social and moral objections taken to the influx of the Chinese people into Canada.

AND WE DO hereby, under the authority of an Act of the Parliament of Canada, passed in the thirty-first year of our reign, chaptered thirty-eight and intituled "An Act Respecting Inquiries Concerning Public Matters," confer upon the said Commissioners the power of summoning before them any party or witnesses, and of requiring them to give evidence on oath, orally or in writing (or on solemn affirmation, if they be parties entitled to affirm in civil matters), and to produce such documents and things as such Commissioners deem requisite to the full investigation of the matters into which they are appointed to examine.

AND WE DO order and direct that the said Commissioners report to our Privy Council for Canada from time to time, or in one report, as they may think fit, the result of their enquiry.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, We have caused these our Letters to be made Patent and the Great Seal of Canada to be hereunto affixed :

WITNESS, our right trusty and entirely beloved cousin, the Most Honorable Sir Henry Charles Keith Petty-Fitzmaurice, Marquis of Lansdowne, in the County of Somerset, Earl of Wycombe, of Chipping Wycombe, in the County of Bucks, Viscount Calne and Calnstone, in the County of Wilts, and Lord Wycombe, Baron of Chipping Wycombe, in the County of Bucks, in the Peerage of Great Britain, Earl of Kerry and Earl of Shelburne, Viscount Clanmaurice and Fitzmaurice, Baron of Kerry, Lixnaw and Dunkerron, in the Peerage of Ireland, Knight Grand Cross of our most distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George, Governor-General of Canada and Vice-Admiral of the same.

At our Government House, in our city of Ottawa, this fourth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-four, and in the forty-eighth year of our reign.

By command, G. POWELL, Under Secretary of State.