OF BRITISH COLUMBIA.

REGINA r, CORPORATION OF VICTORIA,

AT THE PROSECUTION OF MOCK FEE AND ANOTHER.

Trade licenses Porrer of Legislature or Municipality to deny to certain nationalities or individual-Right of Chance to apply for parabroker's license.

It is not competent to the Provincial Legislature, or to a municipality, to deprive, generally, particular nationalities or individuals of the capacity to take out municipal trade licenses ; e. g., a Chinaman has a right to apply for a pawnbroker's license.

Application for a mandamus to the Corporation of the City of Victoria to compel the renewal to the prosecutors (Chinamen) of a pawnbroker's license.

Fell for the application ; Taylor for the Corporation.

SIR M. B. BEGBIE, C. J. :-

This is an application for a mandamus to the Corporation of the City of Victoria, ordering them to issue a renewal of a pawnbroker's license to the prosecutors. The reason alleged by the Corporation for their refusal is that they have passed a resolution stating that in their opinion the prosecutors are not fit persons to be the recipients of such a license. It is alleged by the prosecution, and not denied, that the Council have in fact ordered the Collector to issue no pawnbroking license to any Chinaman. And the proposition was broadly advanced before me that the Provincial Legislature have the right to eliminate nationalities or individuals from the capacity to receive these trade licenses : and that they have, in conformity with Regina v. Hodge, delegated to the Council authority to exercise that right. The first of these contentions has already been before this Court, and has, I think, been entirely denied by several Judges now on the bench. In the first place by Mr. Justice Gray, in Tai Sing v. Macguire (1 B.C.R. pt. i. 101, 1878): by Mr. Justice Crease in Wing Fong's case (1 B.C.R. pt. ii. 150, 1885); and by myself in Mee Wall's case (not reported). These decisions have never been appealed, and I do not feel at liberty to disregard them. I must, therefore, assume that no such authority exists in the Provincial Legislature, and therefore it is impossible that they could have delegated it, or conferred it on the Council. Evidently, if such a power existed, then, since no man may in any municipality pursue any avocation without such license, the Local Legislature might exclude large classes of men from gaining a livelihood, or indeed existing in the Province-a very wide interference with "trade and commerce," which is totally removed from their control by the B. N. A. Act.

It may be useful, however, to examine briefly the grounds on which the Council have been advised that they have a discretion in the matter. This was, in the argument before me, entirely based on the permissive form adopted in the Statute ("Municipal Act, 1887," c. 16, s. 104). " The municipality shall have power to issue licenses " for the trades and professions enumerated, including pawnbrokers (sub-s. 10), "and to levy and collect by means of such licenses the amounts" therein specified. And stress was laid on the word " license," as intimating a permission ; without which antecedent license or permission the proposing trader could not lawfully commence business (ss. 112, 113). But these words do not imply any discretion, i. e., authority to grant or refuse. Prima facie, every person living under the protection of British law has a right at once to exercise his industry and ability in any trade or calling he may select. The only instances in which some antecedent certificate of fitness or qualification is required are, I think, liquor dealers, medical men, and barristers and solicitors. These also have to take out annual licenses under the Municipality Act. But special tribunals are appointed to judge antecedently of their fitness. And, I think, it is quite unheard of that the Council should arbitrarily assume to refuse a license to any of these classes, or to volunteer any statement of their opinion of the fitness or unfitness of a doctor or solicitor. If the Council is to have an absolute discretion to refuse a license to any person applying, on the ground of what they choose to allege as unfitness, then half a dozen tradesmen may secure themselves an entire monopoly of their respective trades throughout the municipality, by simply voting that in their opinion each proposing competitor is an unfit person.

But if the least attention be bestowed on the Statute, it will be seen that the Legislature has given no discretion to the Council. The Statute does not even say they may "grant " licenses ; but only that they may issue them. The industrial classes are told, " You may not carry on your trade in the municipality without a license; if you ask where to get a license, we have authorized the municipality to issue it on payment to them of the annual amount fixed by by-law." Now, enabling words are always compulsory when they are words to effectuate a legal right (Julius v. Bp. Oxford, 5 App. Ca., L. R. 214). And it is of course unnecessary to prove-I should, but for this class of cases, have supposed that it was unnecessary even to state-the undoubted right, which is the boast of English law, that every person living under it has a right to his industry, and to the fruits of it. And when we look to the form of the license in the schedule to the Act we see that it is not issued by the corporation at all (which could only be done under seal), and that it amounts to nothing more than the collector's receipt for the license money, and a certificate that so far as that is concerned (and that is all that concerns the corporation) the holder may exercise the calling therein specified.

It was alleged that the occupation of a pawnbroker affords peculiar facilities for the concealment of stolen goods and the escape of criminals, and that it is particularly essential that care should be exercised

in the selection of persons to carry it on. It is, however, for the Legislature to speak on such a subject, and it has spoken. There are special laws relating to pawnbrokers. The business, it is true, is not, to most persons, attractive. A pawnbroker deals always with the needy, occasionally with the criminal classes: he must generally be hard, and always usurious. But he has always been considered a necessary evil. There has never, so far as I know, been placed any limit on their number, any more than on the number of bakers or butchers. It has been deemed sufficient to make special laws in respect to them and their books, and the supervision of the police. But so, also, are there many special laws for the inspection of butchers' shops under the Health Acts, and of grocers, and bakers, and milk dealers, and in fact of all traders, under the Weights and Measures Acts and the Adulteration Acts; and a reference to the London Police Courts will show that many classes of tradesmen far surpass the pawnbrokers in the number and importance of the charges against them before the stipendiary magistrates. In fact, the pawnbroker assists the detection of criminals perhaps as often as he defeats it, and is a most useful ally of the police.

It is not uninteresting to note the uniformity with which the same events result from the same principles, although in very different parts of the world. Victoria does not possess a monopoly of race jealousy. In the French colony of Cayenne, the Town Council recently handicapped the superior capacities of the Chinaman by imposing on merchants of that empire an extra tax of $300 per annum, deeming it also expedient to handicap English and German traders by a surtax of $200 on them. But on an appeal to the Courts at Paris, all these impositions were declared null on the very same principles as those on which the Courts here insisted when they decided the cases above referred to, viz., as being infringements at once of personal liberty, and of the equality of all men before the law, and also negation of international rights.

The prosecutors are entitled to their writ, and as the law on the subject has been quite clearly laid down ten years ago by Mr. Justice Gray, and again and again by other Judges, the defendants must pay all costs.

Mandamus allowed.